PJ VOGT: From Gimlet, this is Reply All. I’m PJ Vogt. So one of my Facebook friends is this guy, gonna call him Dave, who I haven’t seen in maybe 15 years. I think the last time we saw each other it was the 90s, and we were at a pop punk show. I haven’t talked to him since then. But every single day I watch him argue about politics with his Facebook friends. Trump, the troops, gun control, repeat. Nobody ever changes their mind. I watch it and I feel physically tired. I feel like I’m at someone else’s awkward family dinner but one that goes on infinitely. I was thinking about Dave recently because my newest Facebook friend, Lucia, is also somebody who gets into a lot of political arguments on Facebook. And recently, that kind of became a problem for Lucia. This is a story about the weirdest summer of Lucia’s life. I talked to her about it on Skype.

PJ: So I have a million questions…

LUCIA MENDIZÁBAL: Go ahead!

PJ: I guess the first thing is just like, before any of this happened, like if it’s okay, I just wanted to see your Facebook page?

LUCIA: Uh yeah. I have a lot of stuff… That’s my dog Benny. I have another one. She still looks like a puppy all the time.

PJ: She gave me a quick tour of her page: lots of funny memes from 9Gag, pictures of her grandson, and some Facebook games. For a while she got real into Farmville. She said she would end up running virtual farms alongside strangers in the Middle East.

LUCIA: But then, uh, it went crazy. There was people who get up and put their alarms set for 3 o’clock in the morning because if they didn’t, uh leave their crops, the crops will die.

PJ: Oh my god.

LUCIA: Yeah I know, people was crazy about that.

PJ: I want to be more judgmental about it, but I play this game that’s called Simpsons Tapped Out, which is just, it’s the same name, it’s just Farmville but the Simpsons, and I will sometimes pretend to go to the bathroom because I need to check on my crops.

TIM HOWARD: He means here at work, this is the first I’m learning about this.

PJ: That profoundly disgusted voice belongs to Reply All Senior Producer Tim Howard.

LUCIA: Haha, that’s crazy.

PJ: Lucia lives in the suburbs outside of Guatemala City. In real life, she runs this real estate business with her husband, and when she’s not doing that, or tilling crops in Farmville, she likes to hang out in this Facebook group called Politically Incorrect. She likes to argue with people there. About genetically modified foods, or taxes. It’s a good place to just go spar, even though the people there can be sorta quick to name call.

LUCIA: A lot of people will tell me, oh, you’re a communist, and other people, oh, you are from the ulta derecha, I don’t know how to say that…

TIM: Far right.

LUCIA: Far right.

TIM: Those are the opposite. Communist and the far right.

LUCIA: But you know, but when you’re talking with people that talk about middle ideas, then you must be from the far right. And vice versa.

PJ: Do people fight over the same things, time and time again, or is it whatever’s in the news that day?

LUCIA: Usually it’s about whatever is in the news, and usually it’s about the same thing. I don’t know if you know, but in Guatemala, we had a war, for 30 years.

PJ: Guatemala had a civil war that lasted for 36 years. Hundreds of thousands of Guatemalans were killed by the government. And this war ended pretty recently, like, 1996 recently. There hasn’t been a real thorough truth and reconciliation. And many people in the country just are not interested in talking about what happened.

LUCIA: A lot of people just don’t want to talk about it, they don’t want to know about it, they don’t even want to hear about it. And I think that’s really twisted because we need to talk about it and we need to understand what happened and move forward.

PJ: When Lucia argues politics on Facebook, these are the politics she’s arguing. And talking about those kinds of things in public can still get you in trouble. I first heard about all the trouble that Lucia got into from a reporter named Luis Trelles. He reported about Lucia for Radio Ambulante. And the story starts with this big scandal in Guatemala.

[Spanish newsclip]

LUIS TRELLES: In April of this year, a corruption scandal broke out, and it was basically called La Linea, which translates as “The Line.” It was a corruption scheme that involved customs officials asking for bribes in exchange for not collecting import taxes. And over twenty government officials were originally indicted. And the highest in the chain of command of these government officials was the personal secretary of Vice President Roxana Baldetti.

PJ: Roxana Baldetti is a former beauty queen turned conservative cable news correspondent turned politician.

[Clip of Baldetti]

PJ: Luis says that Guatemalans are used to corruption, but Baldetti is on whole other level. At one point a Guatemalan newspaper reported that she and her husband had 13 million dollars in assets. They had a private helicopter and five properties, which was many multiples more what a politician’s salary should have been able to afford. In response, that reporter was banned by the courts from being near the Vice President. And the thing that really drove Lucia crazy about Roxana Baldetti wasn’t the corruption. It was that whenever she got called out in public about it, she would tell these lies and the lies didn’t even make sense. Like at one point she was accused of looting an environmental fund.

LUCIA: And she said, “I swear, listen, I swear I didn’t steal one red penny from Guatemala. And I swear it on my mother’s life, who is dead.”

PJ: So she was really saying like, if I’m lying may my mother die, and she didn’t think anyone would check?

LUCIA: Yeah, exactly, “I swear on my mother’s life, who is dead.”

PJ: So, the La Linea scandal happens, and even though people are used to bad behavior from Baldetti, this scandal feels worse. In Lucia’s facebook group, Politically Incorrect, there are people who are so fed up that they say that they might just void their ballots in the next election as a protest. Which Lucia thinks is pointless. So she gets on her computer, and tells people what she thinks they ought to do.

LUIS: She immediately gone on her Facebook page and started ranting, and saying that you know, she called for the country to go and protest in front of the government palace.

PJ: Can you read me the post?

LUCIA: Yeah, if you give me one minute I will search it.

PJ: Yeah.

[Lucia reads post in Spanish]

PJ: I asked Lucia to translate her note in real time for me, and she gave it a shot.

LUCIA: If ever in Guatemala needed that everyone go out to the streets for the return of the millions that they have stolen, it is now. Hah! I wrote that like I was Yoda.

PJ: So Lucia gives her post a Yoda-like name.

LUIS: Something along the lines of, “Protest to get Vice President Roxana Baldetti to resign.” It was like the worst name ever. It was like the most boring terrible name ever for a demonstration.

PJ: Had you ever tried to do anything like this before, like had you ever tried to stage a protest?

LUCIA: Of course not! No way.

PJ: Lucia told me that she figured that somebody who actually knew how to do these sorts of things would see her Facebook post, and they’d come up with a real plan for a real protest. Which is not what happened.

LUIS: A newspaper picked up this Facebook event and ran it. And suddenly she has, within 48 hours, she has hundreds of people. Just confirming that they will be assisting the event.

PJ: And this is where Lucia starts to get pretty worried. In Guatemala, it can be very dangerous to protest against the government. In 2012, demonstrators gathered on a highway to protest high energy prices. Seven people were shot and killed, many more were wounded. It seems almost certain that the military, who was at the protest, fired on the crowds. But the President said that the soldiers weren’t carrying guns. The protesters, he suggested, probably fired on themselves. That was his statement. That incident happened in a rural area, and Lucia knows that the government tends to be more violent towards rural, indigenous people than city people. But on the other hand, she’s demanding the Vice President’s resignation. So, she’s scared.
And she finds herself just refreshing the Facebook page, over and over, watching as more and more people share it, and realizing that this thing has taken on a life of its own.

LUIS: That week, it was thousands of people. Who were confirming that they would go to this demonstration. And it’s like 15 thousand, 20 thousand.

PJ: Oh!

LUIS: And the bigger it gets, the scarier it gets for her as well.

LUCIA: And I remember calling my mother and said, “[gasp] Momma, I think I broke something.” And she says, “WHAT?” She said, “Okay, so maybe get together and get some help.”

LUIS: So she looks for help! And what she does is she recruits the son of a friend of hers, that she’s known since this guy was born, this guy is called Gabriel. And the first thing Gabriel does is say, we have to get rid of that name. “Demonstration to ask Roxana Baldetti to resign” is not going to cut it. So he comes up with a hashtag, and he comes up with a hashtag that is called Renuncia Ya.

PJ: Renuncia Ya. In English, “Resign Now.” Or, if you prefer:

LUCIA: Quit already!

PJ: Quit already.

LUCIA: Yeah.

LUIS: He says like, “This will catch on. Trust me.”

PJ: Gabriel and Lucia form a small team to turn Renuncia Ya into something more organized. The team’s half Lucia’s friends, half Gabriel’s friends. Two generations working together. Which Lucia said felt strange, because these kids didn’t remember Guatemala’s brutal civil war, the long, dark period that people don’t talk about much but that Lucia had to confront from literally the moment she was born.

LUCIA: My mother always tells this story that when I was born, it was midnight when her water broke. So she had to call the doctor and the doctor had to make arrangements with the government for some army cars to come into our house accompany my mother and my father to the hospital. Because otherwise if they would see you outside of your house, they would shoot you.

PJ: Oh my god.

LUCIA: No questions asked, just. That’s the Guatemala I was born into.

PJ: That past Guatemala has a way of popping up in the present. For instance, the man widely held responsible for the massacres, General Rios Montt, was tried for genocide in 2013. And during Montt’s trial, something unexpected happened. A former soldier was testifying that he and his troops had been ordered to burn down the villages of indigenous people, to cut off their tongues, pull out their fingernails, and later execute them. The soldier said that the orders had come from his commander, a man who since the war, has become very famous in Guatemala. The commander’s name was Otto Perez Molina. Baldetti’s boss. The President of Guatemala. Perez Molina denied the accusations, as he’s denied similar accusations of war crimes. But understandably, a lot of people fear him. And Lucia has now written a Facebook post directing everyone to go stand outside this man’s office, the Presidential Palace, and start screaming at the two of them. Lucia retroactively tried to make her Facebook presence anonymous. She took her profile picture down, she changed her name. But she was worried about the safety of the kids who were helping her.

LUCIA: They don’t know how dangerous it can be. So we sat down and we talk about it, said, okay, this can be dangerous.

PJ: What’s like the worst case scenario if you’re politically active?

LUCIA: To have your head blown in any street and then appear next day in the newspaper as one of the victims of violence.

TIM: Is that something that you were imagining? Did that feel like a real thing that could happen?

LUCIA: At the beginning, maybe not. Because I didn’t expect more than 50 or let’s say 350 people. But when we reached levels of thousands of people that said yes, we’re going to attend? At that time I was really scared. I was really worried. Not because of me. Like, I’m 53 years old, and I’m a grandmother as you have seen. And my daughters are both grownups. And I’m not ready to die. But my death is not something that I will avoid at all costs. Like for me it is more important for them to have a great country where my grandsons and granddaughters, if I ever get, will grow up, than my life. But I was afraid for the people that was with me, and I was afraid for the lives of my dear ones. I believe that people die whenever they are supposed to die. And I am convinced about that. So I said, if they’re gonna kill me, either way I was supposed to die that day, maybe in my bathtub or in my bed, I was supposed to die anyhow. I tell you, I’m crazy!

PJ: So, Lucia had learned something she’d never known about herself—that she was ready to die for the right cause. And she’d warned the younger people as well as she could. But now the Facebook page had begun to bubble with signs that this protest could still get very bloody.

LUIS: There are some voices that are starting to get rowdy inside of the event page. Some kids, apparently, who are like, we’ve got to go in there with our Molotov cocktails and our rocks and our bats, we’ve got to make some noise and we’ve gotta bring the government down, that kind of rhetoric.

PJ: The people who were calling for violence, they looked like they had fake accounts. They were all really new, and they didn’t have a lot of friends except for each other. Lucia was pretty sure that that meant there were people in the government’s propaganda wing. Which was extremely bad news. It meant that not only had the government noticed the protests, but that it was trying to push them towards violence. But what could Lucia really do at this point? If she canceled the event, people would still show up. So she called out the people who were threatening violence. She told everyone they were probably from the government, and to ignore them. And then, all she could really do is wait.

LUIS: She told me at one point that it’s like in cartoons, when a character is in a dark room and they light a match, and then it’s revealed that the room is full of dynamite.

PJ: After the break, Lucia, the lit match, and the Vice President.

BREAK

PJ: Okay. So. April 25. Day of the protest.

PJ: Do you remember what kind of day it was outside?

LUCIA: It was a nice Saturday. The kind of Saturday you would choose to go to the pool and relax and do nothing

PJ: How were you feeling?

LUCIA: Scared to death.

PJ: She eats lunch with her mom. The protest is supposed to take place in the Plaza de la Constitucion, the main square in front of the government palace. It’s the center, all roads in Guatemala lead out from this one square. Lucia parks far away, in case the thing is packed, in case people do show up. And she starts walking in. And in her head, she’s picturing everything that can go wrong. An empty square, because nobody shows up. A square that is full, but either of protesters being beaten by cops, or protesters who are beating each other. From far away, she starts to hear yelling. People are flowing into the square. A small group of people stops at a nearby cafe trying to convince the patrons to come with them. Up close, it’s hard to even see the scale of the thing until a friend lets her into a nearby building, and they go upstairs.

LUCIA: We go up and I look out the window, and I, it was like, [gasps]! Like all you see was heads and sign and hats.

PJ: The National Palace is this concrete monolith. It’s all towering columns and high walls.The square in front of it is completely covered in protesters. They’re waving Guatemalan flags and their wearing its colors, blue and white. It’s hard to actually pick out any individuals, it starts to just look like one enormous, many-limbed organism that speaks in cheers and blaring horns.

LUCIA: I was in tears. I didn’t cry in that moment, but in my heart I was in tears of emotion. And even though I may say a lot of things that don’t sound like, “Oh, she’s all that,” at that moment I did thought: “I am all that!”

[protest crowd]

PJ: Luis says the crowd wasn’t just spectacular and large, it was diverse. It was made up of every kind of person.

LUIS: I mean conservatives, liberals, they really did what they wanted to do, which was gather people who were fed up with corruption

PJ: Luis says everybody was united by their utter disgust with Baldetti. So much so that they even all sing the national anthem.

[national anthem]

LUCIA: And of course it was terrible.

PJ: Lucia says that there were so many people that they couldn’t actually get the song going in unison.

LUCIA: It sounded like waves, you know.

PJ: It was a cacophony, just all this joyful singing crashing against itself.

LUCIA: But it was so moving. And at that time, we did cry.

PJ: Lucia started to think about how Guatemala is seen in the world, as this violent, violent place, a place whose people kill each other.

LUCIA: And yet we were there, in peace.

PJ: It was like nothing she’d ever experienced. She found herself really listening to the words of the national anthem, hearing them freshly. There’s a line about how Guatemala had once achieved peace without violence. And that seemed possible again. They stood outside the palace for hours. But Roxana Baldetti was nowhere to be found. Lucia doesn’t even think she was in the palace that did. Baldetti didn’t show up for two weeks. And when she did, it was actually her boss, President Perez Molina, who made the big announcement.

[Spanish newsclip]

LUCIA: She resigned! And that was most unexpected. Very welcome.

PJ: And how did it feel to watch that?

LUCIA: Uh, you’re going to think I’m crazy. Well, we already established that! I was happy but not surprised. It was the reasonable thing to be done. Like, If you prepare a cake and you beat it and you put it in the oven, you’re not really surprised when it comes out a cake, after an hour of being in the oven.

PJ: Right… But… I get pretty excited about cakes. When they’re ready to eat.

LUCIA: Yeah… yeah…

PJ: It wasn’t long though until Lucia found something that she really could get straightforwardly excited about.

LUCIA: It’s called escuchas, you know like when they hear the…

PJ: Wiretaps!

LUCIA: Yeah. Wiretaps, exactly. Where the president is giving instructions, not somebody else talking about him, but it was himself talking. And giving instructions.

PJ: Turns out, the same team of investigators who caught Baldetti also had tapes of President Perez Molina, incriminating himself in the La Linea scandal, that same customs scandal that had ensnared Baldetti.

PJ: And there’s actual, like, recording of this? Like you’ve heard this recording, people have heard this recording?

LUCIA: Yeah, everyone.

PJ: Wow.

[sound of wiretaps]

PJ: The protesters went nuts.

LUIS: The group was like, we got the Vice President to resign, now we need to get the President to resign.

PJ: And so a whole new round of protests erupts, throughout all of Guatemala. It’s like wildfire. Every single weekend, there are people outside, waving signs, demanding that their president resign. But there’s a catch. Perez Molina just refuses to quit. And while the prosecutors have built a strong case, he can’t be arrested, because there’s this rule in Guatemala that the president is immune to criminal prosecution as long as he’s in office. The only way you can arrest a president is if Congress votes to strip him of his immunity. Which of course, has never, ever happened. It’s just an absurd pipe dream. But everything about the summer is absurd. The wave of protests that comes out of Lucia’s, it doesn’t stop, it gets bigger. And the investigators dig deeper. And the press doesn’t back off. And the pressure just builds and builds and then in August, there’s a general strike.

LUIS: Then a new hashtag came out, hashtag yo no tengo presidente, which means I don’t have a president.

WOMAN YELLING: Otto Perez Molina, renuncia ya!

PJ: The entire country comes to a halt, and even Congress can’t ignore it. They take away Perez Molina’s immunity. The vote’s unanimous.

LUIS: After that vote, he really has to resign. And that very same day he’s in prison, he’s in a holding cell as he awaits trial. In a day, in a single day.

PJ: Yeah. Yeah.

LUIS: It’s crazy. It’s crazy, I mean like, he was president in the morning and he’s in a jail cell by evening.

LUCIA: That day, that day I was, I think it was one of the happiest days of my life. Because for the very first time in my life, finally, justice had been served.

PJ: Did that ever seem possible?

LUCIA: No, actually, it didn’t. That’s why I was so happy. Every single one of the Congress that worked that day at the Congress and had to make the decision voted yes. I want to cry right now. I’m so overwhelmed and excited. It’s so nice. I’m crying but I’m crying of happiness.

PJ: Luis says that considering everything Lucia did, it’s really surprising that she hasn’t used Renuncia Ya as a springboard, like say into a political career.

LUIS: A different person would be running for president right now. If Lucia were a different person, she would be a total political rock star right now. But that’s not what she wanted, that wasn’t the point of it.

PJ: And what do you think it is, like why… I feel like a lot of people start out that way. And then, you know, you see things you can fix, but to do that you’re gonna have to make a deal with this person, and you know, like politics tends to corrupt very well intentioned people. Like what is it about her that she, I don’t know, inoculated herself?

LUIS: That’s a great question, and I think she’s always been very clear, I think she really, really dreams of a better Guatemala. A Guatemala where the hospitals work because the politicians aren’t stealing money. Where people are paying their fair share of taxes. I mean, she’s so idealistic. At some point she told me that she started putting out these Renuncia Ya hashtags which were like quit corruption, and quit smoking inside public places, and quit running red lights. It’s like that’s the kind of Guatemala she wants to live in.

PJ: Lucia is so busy imagining her grand vision for Guatemala that she doesn’t really worry about her role in it. Remember, she took away her picture and her name from her Facebook profile. Which meant that on the day of that big protest, when she was in a crowd of thousands of people who’d assembled because of her note, she was anonymous.

LUCIA: A really funny thing is that even though I had invited all my friends, very few people knew that I had been the one posting the event on Facebook.

PJ: What’d that feel like? To have that secret?

LUCIA: It was so much fun. In fact, was the greatest feeling of all. Like, I have a secret.

PJ: How did you not tell everybody?

LUCIA: I thought it was the proper thing to do. It was really fun, it was nice to have a secret. And I think if I tell the people what I did, it was like seeking recognition. I didn’t do it for that reason. I never did it for that reason.

PJ: So the obvious next question for both Lucia and Guatemala is the same: now what? It’s hard to say. But Lucia’s optimistic. Everything just seems so possible now. She gave me a quick update on what’s happened since the protest: Perez Molina is under house arrest, Baldetti’s been arrested too. Lucia’s not crazy about the new president, but she’s been paying a lot more attention to the judicial system, and she says she likes the judge who’s presiding over the Perez Molina trial. And as for her, she says she might want to teach a class on ethics now. She wants to spend some time with her kids. And she told me about this old saying.

LUCIA: I don’t know if you’ve heard this, but they say that you have to have a child, plant a tree, and write a book. So maybe I will write a book.

PJ: Have you planted a tree?

LUCIA: Yeah.

TIM: That’s what this whole story was, PJ! Where were you?

PJ: I thought it was a literal tree.

TIM: No, it’s better. Way better than a literal tree.

LUCIA: No but I did plant a tree! A real tree, not one but many. Sometimes I don’t know what to do with them.

PJ: On Lucia’s Facebook page these days, the cover image is a new hashtag. In big bold white letters, over a picture of everybody gathered in the square, it says, “Esto apenas empieza.” “This is just the beginning.”

PJ: If you’d like to hear Radio Ambulante’s Spanish language version of this story, you should check em out, they’re at radioambulante.org. We’ll have a link to it in the podcast description. Reply All is me, PJ Vogt, and Alex Goldman. We were produced this week by Tim Howard, Sruthi Pinnamaneni, and Phia Bennin. Our editor is Peter Clowney. Production assistance from Kalila Holt. We were mixed by Rick Kwan. Special thanks to Emily Kennedy, Francisco Goldman, Diego Alburez-Gutierrez, and Kate Saunders-Hastings. Our theme music is by the mysterious Breakmaster Cylinder and our ad music is by Build Buildings. Matt Lieber is a spontaneous road trip. You can find more episodes at itunes.com/replyall. Our website is replyall.soy.

PJ Vogt: From Gimlet, this is Reply All. I’m PJ Vogt.

ALEX GOLDMAN: And I’m Alex Goldman.

PJ: Don’t you feel like we’re about to do like an NFL announcing thing?

GOLDMAN: [sings] That’s literally all I know about sports is the song for football. Is that the song for football?

PJ: Yeah, it’s called the song for football.

GOLDMAN: Are you ready for some football? Do you remember Hank Williams the, Hanks Williams, Jr. did that song. I know the songs for football.

PJ: That’s cool. So this week we have, this week we have a really surprising great piece that you reported, but that is in the second half of the show. First. . .

GOLDMAN: We’re going to have a “Yes, Yes, No.”

PJ: Let’s go.

GOLDMAN: Welcome to “Yes, Yes, No,” the segment on the show where we treat our boss like our dad and walk through the internet and explain things to him.

ALEX BLUMBERG: These, these intros get more and more humiliating.

GOLDMAN: This of course if our boss Alex Blumberg. Thanks for doing this again. Sorry to embarrass you. But it seems like you like it cuz you keep coming back.

BLUMBERG: Well, like, I learn things along the way that’s the, that’s the good thing. All right, so this is a tweet. And it’s from a Twitter user named kept_simple, “kept underscore simple.” And the tweet reads as follows. “Contrast the strong virile Powerball with BB-8, the powerless white cuckball.”

So, PJ Vogt, do you know what this tweet means?

PJ: Uh, I can see some of it, like I can see the, some iceberg over the water but I don’t know how much is. . .

BLUMBERG: Just answer the question.

PJ: I don’t know. I kinda know.

BLUMBERG: Alex Goldman, do you know what this tweet means.

GOLDMAN: Yes, I do.

PJ: You fully know?

GOLDMAN: Yes. Alex Blumberg, do you know what this tweet means.

BLUMBERG: I do not.

PJ: Well, Alex, how far did you make it in before you get lost.

BLUMBERG: Me?

PJ: Yeah.

BLUMBERG: Uh, I get lost at, I get lost at “Contrast. . .” Let’s see, “Contrast the strong virile Powerball with BB-8. . .” I get lost at BB-8. “B-B-dash-8.”

PJ: Okay, but before that you know, do you know right now that the Powerball lottery is super high?

BLUMBERG: Yeah, the Powerball lottery is over a billion dollars. That I know, cuz I’m a human being.

PJ: Ok, I wasn’t calling into question, but you don’t know who BB-8 is?

BLUMBERG: No, I don’t know who BB-8 is.

PJ: Okay, well, a lot of human beings, most human beings saw the new. . .

GOLDMAN: There’s a new movie out. It’s a little movie, it’s called Star Wars.

BLUMBERG: Right, okay.

PJ: And do you remember R2D2 in the old Star Wars movies?

BLUMBERG: Yes. R2D2 the one that only spoke in beeps.

GOLDMAN: Right.

PJ: So, there’s a new droid that only speaks in beeps. His name is BB-8. He looks like a volleyball with another volleyball on top of him. He rolls around all the time and he says like, “Berp berp berp berp berp.” And that’s like his whole language.

GOLDMAN: He’s very cute.

GOLDMAN/PJ: [in unison] He’s very cute.

BLUMBERG: Got it.

PJ: We have now, like, maxxed out on my knowledge of this tweet. I don’t understand what a cuckball is or why they’re being compared.

GOLDMAN: So there’s a very specific reason why this person uses the phrase “powerless white cuckball” and we’re about to dive into that.

PJ: This feels already, like, one that I’m gonna want to not save in my brain. Is that true?

BLUMBERG: I’m really excited about where we’re about to go.

GOLDMAN: Okay, so are you familiar with the slang term “cuck?”

PJ: As in like “cuckold?”

GOLDMAN: Yeah, so. It’s become this sort of catchall word for like effeminate, cowardly men. They’re called “cucks.” There was a New York. . .

PJ: Wait, people? Which people?

GOLDMAN: Well, there was a New York Times article not that long ago about how the phrase “RHINO”–which used to mean “Republican in name only”–has sort of been supplanted by the phrase “cuckservative.”

PJ: Okay.

GOLDMAN: So, “cuck” is, is a slang term for, like, a cowardly helpless creature.

PJ: Okay.

GOLDMAN: And, as you predicted, now we. . .now we’re going to take a dip in the manosphere.

PJ: Okay. Don’t. . .can we not say, “Take a dip in the manosphere?”

GOLDMAN: I’m afraid we can’t. I’m afraid that’s the, that’s how it has to be presented.

BLUMBERG: “The manosphere” being –

GOLDMAN: There is a specific part of the internet, and I’m not sure if they self-identify as the manosphere, but there is a, there is like a sort of a constellation of blogs that are men’s rights activists. And, they are sort of white supremacists adjacent.

BLUMBERG: Mmhmm. . .

GOLDMAN: So, Star Wars: The Force Awakens came out. . .

BLUMBERG: Yes.

GOLDMAN: . . .late last month. . .

BLUMBERG: Yup.

GOLDMAN: . . .to much critical acclaim.

PJ: Oh no, I know where this is going.

GOLDMAN: And one of the things that people were very excited about was the fact that it had a female protagonist and a black protagonist.

BLUMBERG: Got it.

GOLDMAN: But, there was a certain subset of the internet that was very mad about this. Their argument was that Rey, the main female character, used the Force too well too early in the series. Like, she didn’t get trained enough and they were like, “Of course they would make a woman so good at the Force.” That was really like a serious argument. That was it.

BLUMBERG: They were complaining about fictional fantasy affirmative action.

GOLDMAN/PJ: [in unison] Yes.

BLUMBERG: Like they were saying like, “Oh, you, like, she only got so good at the Force because she’s a wo. . .that’s amazing.”

PJ:  She took a spot that a white man coulda gotten into at the Jedi Academy.

BLUMBERG: She a fake fictional spot in a fantasy world that a fake white man in that fantasy world could have taken just as easily.

GOLDMAN: Basically, An image popped up, from 4chan, and it was all about how this movie was all about empowering people of color and women and the only character for white men to identify with was the powerless, white cuckball–the droid.

PJ: Oh, God.

GOLDMAN: You know, here’s here’s my question. How far did they get into the movie cuz Han Solo comes back.

PJ: Very quickly. Wait, but what does that have to do with “Contrast the strong virile Powerball.”

GOLDMAN: Someone’s making a joke about what’s going on right now with the lottery. They’re like, “The lottery is so big and strong right now at $1.3 billion” or whatever it is at this point. Compare that with the lowly, powerless white male surrogate. The ball droid from Star Wars: The Force Awakens.

PJ: Wow.

GOLDMAN: So I think we’re at “Yes, Yes, Yes.”

PJ: Yeah.

BLUMBERG: We are at “Yes, Yes, Yes.”

GOLDMAN: Would you like to, would you like to explain back to us exactly what you learned?

BLUMBERG: So, okay, once again the tweet, “Contrast the strong virile Powerball with BB-8 the powerlesss white cuckball.” So, kept_simple is making a. . .is making a comparison, an absurdist comparison between the Powerball lottery–which is over a billion dollars right now, I think, at the time of this taping anyway–with BB-8, who is the new R2D2-style character in the latest Star Wars movie. And, and BB-8, I now know is, in the manosphere–a section of the internet that, up until a half an hour ago I didn’t know existed, and I wish I was back there now–

PJ: Just as an editor’s note, I’m not convinced that “the manosphere” or “dipping into the manosphere” exists outside of Alex Goldman’s, like, Google search brain.

GOLDMAN: No no no. The manosphere is a real thing.

PJ: The manosphere. I’m just Googling this. . .Oh, my God, it has a Wikipedia entry.

GOLDMAN: Yeah, manosphere. . .

PJ: Just to say, there’s also vivalamanosphere.com. Oh, my God. Okay, I’m done.

BLUMBERG: You resigning from the internet?

PJ: I’m going on sabbatical.

BLUMBERG: So anyway, so there’s a section of the internet called “the manosphere.” One of the people on the manosphere posted on 4chan that the only character in the “Star Wars” movies that they could identify with was that quote “powerless white cuckball” and that is the comment on 4chan that kept_simple is referencing in his satiric tweet.

GOLDMAN: Yeah, we’re at “Yes, Yes, Yes.”

BLUMBERG: And like always. . .why do we keep doing this to ourselves?

PJ: One day it’s gonna. . .

BLUMBERG: Why do. . .

PJ: . . .turn out different.

BLUMBERG: Why do we keep answering questions? I was so excited to be. . .I’m thinking back to that young, innocent Alex Blumberg of like 20 minutes ago who was very excited when you, when you were about to launch into the story of the powerless white cuckball and I was so excited. I thought you were going to take to a place of wonder.

GOLDMAN: I mean I would call it a place of wonder.

PJ: Yeah, but you think it’s going to be like Back to the Future I where everyone’s on hoverboards, but it’s like Back to the Future II where like the mean guys in charge and it’s a dystopia. Like every single time. . .

GOLDMAN: Both of those things happen in Back to the Future II.

PJ: Really?

GOLDMAN: I’m sorry to break it to you. All of Back to the Future I takes place in either 1985 or 1955. It’s in the second one that they go to 2015.

PJ: I hate you. I hate being friends with you. Like it brings me no joy. You’re like a fuckin’ human corrections column.

GOLDMAN: If it makes it feel any better I pronounce everything wrong and I don’t know what any words mean.

PJ: Coming up after the break, “Where do you keep your ketchup?” Stick around.

 

BREAK

 

PJ: Welcome back to the show. So this next story is about ketchup, stool samples, and a big debate about the right way to solve problems. Alex has the story.

GOLDMAN: So when I think of silicon valley, I think of this playground for rich techy guys. You know, offices with beanbag chairs, ping pong tables, xboxes. i don’t ever picture neighborhoods or the people who live there and have actual not-venture-capital lives.

But there’s the guy, his name’s Leslie Miley. He’s a big shot in the Silicon Valley world. He’s worked at Apple, Google, Yahoo. And he’s different than most of peers in a couple ways. First of all, he’s black. And second, he grew up in Silicon Valley. Just a couple miles away from the companies he’d later work at. But it might as well have been a different country. I reached at his home on Skype.

LESLIE Miley: I’m a Silicon Valley native and, you know, the the sometimes the walk home was not fun. I’m African American, I’m a guy named Leslie and, you know, that did not go far in a mainly Hispanic neighborhood.

GOLDMAN: Back then, he was just another poor kid in San Jose, the son of a General Motors assembly line worker and a stay-at-home mom, trying to avoid getting beat up on the way home from school.

LESLIE: And, so I would like take these really circuitous routes home and, I know, I’d walk through strip malls, and, you know just whatever so I could to avoid where I knew these guys were hanging out. And and I just went into, I don’t know, it was like a computer world or I can’t even remember the name of it.

And I would go in there and saw these these what I thought were just video game machines and you know after like a day or two of playing there, they were like you need to learn more than just how to play a video game. And so they popped in like a programming language, and that’s how I learned. . .

GOLDMAN: Wow.

LESLIE: . . .and they would sit with me, and you know, and give me pointers, you know, and I would get a task to do and then I could play a game.

GOLDMAN: Few years later, Leslie went away to college, but after a few semesters he dropped out, and found himself back in San Jose.

LESLIE: . . .and took a job as a security guard at Apple in the 90’s, and because I had some programming experience, I would hang out with the old school programmers who hadn’t bathed in 6 or 7 days. And, and they taught me a lot. So that’s how I got started.

GOLDMAN: Leslie found his way into the tech world almost 20 years ago, doing back end work on software at Walmart. And from there he went on to work at some of the biggest companies in Silicon Valley–Google, Apple, Yahoo. And three years ago, he was thrilled to land at Twitter.

LESLIE: It’s a really interesting company and it has a lot of great things about it, and and in some ways it may be the best job I ever had.

GOLDMAN: After the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, the Black Lives Matter  movement was using Twitter to organize. Which was really inspiring for Leslie – it gave him a sense of purpose, and made him proud to work there.

This was honestly a dream job, for Leslie. Which is why I was so surprised to learn that in October, he quit. Not for another job somewhere else. But because working there had just become too frustrating.

He tried to explain it to me. Yeah, well, Twitter the product was used by all kinds of people, Twitter the company felt very white and very male. In fact, Leslie was the only black engineer in a leadership position at the entire company.

LESLIE: You just kind of look around, and you’re like “Wow, look at who’s getting promoted. Look at who’s getting the accolades.” You know, you look around and you’re like “oh, we don’t have any minorities, ethnic or racial minorities in a position above manager. You know, what’s up with that?”

GOLDMAN: He just didn’t think these problems were getting enough attention. He described a meeting he attended with Twitter’s former diversity, Janet Van Huysse.

LESLIE: She was talking about diversity recruiting and I said “What are we doing to increase diversity in engineering, specifically with African Americans and Hispanics.” Her response was something something along the lines of, “Well I’m the only one, so I’m only concentrating on women right now.”

GOLDMAN: Realizing that that might be taken poorly, the Senior VP of engineering Alex Roetter stepped in.

LESLIE: And he’s like “Hey, diversity is absolutely important. And, you know, we’re going to lead in this, you know, but we’re not going to lower the bar.”

GOLDMAN: To Leslie, this was infuriating. Lower the bar? Who said anything about lowering the bar? And, this happened all the time across his whole career. When he was at Apple. When he was at Google. Someone would say something, in a room full of people, and it was like Leslie was the only one hearing it.

LESLIE: When I was at Google and an engineering director tossed me the book Not an Ordinary Black Man by Bryan Copeland with the comment that maybe I will get along better after I read that book.

GOLDMAN: Actually, turns out the book is called Not a Genuine Black Man, but anyway, the guy gives him the book.

LESLIE: You know, the book is about a black guy living in a white neighborhood.  You know, it’s, you know you get that book, I’m sitting on this couch and I get this book and and I’m like, “Ok, I need to talk to somebody,” but I have no one here at my level or above my level who I can go and talk to about this.

GOLDMAN: What do you think his intention was in that instance?

LESLIE: Does it matter?

GOLDMAN: I mean, I guess not.

LESLIE: I hate to be just blunt, but does his intention at that point in time matter? No. And his intention will never matter. It’s, it’s an ignorant thing to do and callous thing to do.

GOLDMAN: Moments like these were isolating and tiring. And at Twitter, they were frequent enough that they began to weigh on him. And  when he’d talk to his bosses, they’d tell him that he was the problem.

LESLIE: You know, early in my career, my reviews would come back that I’m intimidating, I’m aggressive, I’m this, I’m that, and and you know, I would always take that feedback and try to get better, take that feedback and try to integrate it.

GOLDMAN: But to integrate this feedback, Leslie ends up trying desperately not to conform to the stereotype of an angry black man and he ends up sanding off all the sharp edges of his personality. Just not being himself. Fast forward to a performance review while he was at Twitter.

LESLIE: The, my my manager at the time, the director at the time was saying, he’s like, “You’re just not aggressive enough.” Which is like, well I’m thinking, “Well what the hell just happened here?” You, you know, five years ago, I was too aggressive. Today I’m not aggressive enough. You know, and then that’s why I asked myself, have I over compensated? You know, have I tried to make people so comfortable and not be the scary intimidating black guy that I’m actually not being aggressive enough? Because I don’t want to scare people.

GOLDMAN: Even with all of its frustrations, Leslie still loved working at Twitter. It was challenging. It was fun. But then, in October, his frustration bubbled over. It was during another conversation with Alex Roetter.

LESLIE: We started, you know, the conversation of hey I think, you know, diversity in engineering, you know, we’re not doing as well as we would like to do. You know, I have some thoughts, I have some ideas. I. . .and then he shifted the conversation, and he was like “I think it’s a sourcing problem, and we need to find out where candidates are falling out in the funnel.” He’s like, “Well, you know, we can just write a name classifier. You know, write a name classifier, that you know, like the name Nguyen is probably 98% Vietnamese, so if you know if you have a Tommy Nguyen, he’s probably Vietnamese.”

GOLDMAN: To be clear, when Leslie says “name classifier,” what he means is a program that would automatically identify non-white sounding names, so this would jump out of the hiring pool. This was Alex Roetter’s suggestion for how Twitter could find a diverse workforce.

And first of all, a tool like that isn’t likely to even work. If you run a name like Leslie Miley through it, it’s pretty likely to assume that you’re a white woman. But more than that, for Leslie, the ick factor of something like this was just off the charts.

LESLIE: And, you know, and I’m thinking about it I’m an engineer, right? And so I’m like I mean I get this. But, he black part of me, you know, which is a major part of me, is like, “Really? Really? I I have to build a profiling tool? You’re you’re suggesting a profiling tool?”

I said, “I’m not sure if it’s legal and, you knw, I’m not even sure if this is ethical to do something like that.”

He’s like, “Yeah, but, you know, we could solve that problem!” And and I just realized that this is not something that this person is thinking about this as a thing to be solved as an engineer only. And if they’re going to look at solving the problem this way, you know, I don’t want to be a part of it because that just doesn’t sit well with me.

GOLDMAN: For his part, Alex Roetter, he says that he didn’t mean it the way Leslie took it. But still, Leslie had had enough. He just said “That’s it,” and he walked away from his dream job.

LESLIE almost immediately started talking about his experience at Twitter. And he made this argument, one that I find really interesting.

LESLIE says that Twitter’s lack of diversity doesn’t just affect the workplace atmosphere, but it goes straight to the heart of the product itself.

LESLIE: Obviously if you don’t have people of diverse backgrounds building your product, you’re going get a very very narrowly focused product that may do one or two things really well or just may not do anything really well. And if you look at Twitter as a product, it doesn’t a lot of the simple things. It doesn’t do direct messaging well. It doesn’t do media sharing well, right? And if you had people from diverse backgrounds, you may have been able to expand, you know, what what you thought was possible?

GOLDMAN. Let me ask you this how must of your desire to see diverse workplaces comes from the fact that it’s just morally correct to have diverse workplaces versus it will make your product much better.

LESLIE: Yes. The answer to that question is yes. It’s going to, you know, diverse teams have better outcomes, that is, there’s so much has been written on that in the last 30 years I don’t even know why we’re talking about it. And and I think, you know, I hate sounding like, you know, like a total socialist, but arising tide lifts all boats.

GOLDMAN: Honestly, even though Leslie says that there’s 30 years of research to back it up, this particular idea, that diversity makes for better problem solving–I’d never heard of it. So I went and looked into it and there are actually a ton of people studying this concept. Like this guy.

SCOTT PAGE: So my name is Scott Page, I’m a professor of complex systems at the University of Michigan and an external faculty member at the Santa Fe Institute.

GOLDMAN: Scott researches how teams perform. And in 2004 he published an experiment that tackled the idea of quote unquote “lowering the bar”

SCOTT: I was interested in this question of when would it be the case if I were trying to hire people that I should hire the best individuals and when would it be the case that I should hire just even random people, I mean random good people.

GOLDMAN: Being a professor of complex systems, Scott used mathematical algorithms as a stand-in for people. And he’d give these algorithms really difficult math problems to solve. And then, he made two teams, one full of highly effective algorithms all programmed to solve a problem, in ways similar to each other. Like, how a group of smart people who all graduated from the same colleges might behave. But then, Scott filled the other side of his model with less expert equations, all of which approached the problems from totally different directions. Like a team from different backgrounds.

SCOTT: And so I was writing all these computer models and mathematical models and in every, in almost every model I wrote what was happening is the team of the best individuals was not doing best. The team consisting of the best individuals was getting beaten by just randomly picking people.

GOLDMAN: The experts were losing. If anything, they were the ones who needed the bar lowered.

Granted, we’re talking about zeros and ones, but still, it was strange. Scott was noticing that the “so called” expert performers, the ones who tended to have really similar strategies, when you put them in a team, they’d get stumped more or less at the same time. While the randomly-picked, less expert algorithms, they always had some new strategy to try. And they won again and again.

And Scott says the same thing happens in real-world experiments with people. When faced with a hard problem a diverse team gets better results. And by diversity, he doesn’t just mean race or gender.

SCOTT: One way you can measure diversity is you can ask, literally, you know, what knowledge bases do you have, what have you learned? You can ask what experiences you’ve had?

GOLDMAN: Scott says that language, age, geography, personal hardship–they all inform how we solve problems in these crazy subtle ways. And he gave this example that I find totally mind-blowing. Where we keep our ketchup.

SCOTT: Now turns out if you’re British or if you’re African American from the South, not as a rule but generally speaking, you’re likely to keep your ketchup in the cupboard. If you’re not British and you’re not African American from the South, you tend to keep your ketchup in the fridge. And you could think “Vive le difference, who cares, right?” Well it actually does matter because suppose you run out of ketchup. If you’re out of ketchup and you’re a ketchup in the fridge person, what are you gonna use? Well you might use mayonnaise, you might use mustard because those are things you think of when what’s next to the ketchup. If, alternatively, you’re a ketchup in the cupboard person and you run out ketchup, what’s next to the ketchup in the cupboard? Well, malt vinegar.

GOLDMAN: So, the more diverse the backgrounds, the more associations you get, and the more paths towards solving a hard problem.

And there are actually a lot of real-life examples of this. Carl Zimmer, a science writer for the New York Times, he says that the ketchup story completely tracks with what he sees in the science world

CARL ZIMMER: Y know if a scientist is looking at a problem and thinking about how am I going to solve it, there’s a range of approaches that they may think of just based on their training. You know, and they can’t even imagine that there’s another way of approaching it. You know, they can’t imagine that there’s ketchup in the pantry, really. And the fact is that another scientist can walk in and be like,“Oh, look, you’re looking at this totally the wrong way.”

GOLDMAN: Carl had a great example of this kind of cross-pollination. So, going back about 8 years.

CARL: There was this gastroenterologist who was dealing with a patient who was dying of a horrible gut infection and everything he had been trying wasn’t working. And so he had heard that if you give a patient a stool transplant from a healthy person, that somehow that could cure these kinds of infections.

GOLDMAN: A stool transplant. The gastroenterologist, Alexander Khoruts, he tried it and it worked. The dying patient had a complete recovery in just a couple days. But Khoruts didn’t understand why. To figure out just what was going on he needed the help of someone else. A woman named Janet Jansson.

CARL: I remember, like, the first time that I talked to Janet Jansson, and I said, “Wait a minute. So you’re not, you’re not a medical doctor?” And she’s like, “No no nono, I’m an ecologist.”

And I’m like, “Well, what do you study?”

And she’s like, “I study dirt.”

And I I I I just I, I thought maybe I called the wrong person or something.

GOLDMAN: But as Janssen explained, when she looked at the stool sample, she saw something that Khoruts didn’t. She saw a thriving ecosystem. Just like the ecosystems in healthy soil.

CARL: What had happened with the stool transplant was that basically a a healthy ecosystem had been restored and had taken the place of a sick one.

GOLDMAN: And it’s not just stool samples. The microwave, it’s thanks to a guy who was developing radar for the miliary. The discovery of the double helix, mostly the work of a zoologist and a physicist.

Sure, It can be tricky to pull off, but scientists know that if they’re stuck on a problem, they need to talk to someone who keeps the ketchup somewhere else.

So between Scott Page’s mathematical models and the entire history of scientific breakthrough it seems pretty clear to me: Silicon Valley would benefit immensely from more diversity.

Which is awesome. I mean, this is probably the first time in my life that the profitable thing was also actually morally correct thing.

But unfortunate.y, because I was excited about this idea, I mentioned this to my co-worker Adam Davidson.

ADAM DAVDISON: I’m Adam Davidson co-host of Gimlet’s Surprisingly Awesome with Adam McKay. I also write a column for the New York Times Magazine.

GOLDMAN: He’s also a founder of the radio show Planet Money and an expert on economics.

And Adam says, “Yes, diverse workforce, it’s a beautiful idea, and I’m all for it.” But when it comes to Silicon Valley there are two big problems. First: we don’t have proof yet that it works because to prove it, you’d want to look at all of those diverse Silicon Valley companies. And, they don’t really exist.

ADAM: I was looking at the numbers just this morning for Silicon Valley, looking at African Americans in Silicon Valley.

GOLDMAN: Right.

ADAM: And it is, even though knew I was going to be shocked, I was still shocked by the numbers. The highest is that 6% of engineers at some companies, I think, are African American but but far more typical is less than 1% are African American and then in positions of real power and authority it’s much much smaller than that.

GOLDMAN: You need like a larger set of data to work from.

ADAM: Yes a part, a problem with–whether it’s institutional racism or whatever it is–a problem with having an incredibly small number of minorities working in positions of power in fast-growing companies is it’s really hard to make any conclusive determination about them because there just aren’t enough.

GOLDMAN: So in order to prove the value of diversity in the workforce you need to first have diversity in the workforce to be able to prove that it’s valuable.

ADAM: Yes.

GOLDMAN: So for now a lot of companies don’t want to take the risk and they do want to keep their investors happy by making money fast.

And that speed, that pressure, it creates the second big problem. Startups, of course, want to grow quickly, and diversity may make that more difficult.

ADAM: One theory is sameness is really good especially for fast growing startups. That when people have the same cultural background, the same educational background, they can communicate much more quickly, they can collaborate much more easily, there’s much less misunderstanding. So I was thinking about this on the way here. Like, you and I are Jewish guys who worked in public radio

GOLDMAN: Yes.

ADAM: We work for a company that has a lot of them and you called me and said hey can you come onto the podcast and talk about this thing. And we did not have to talk long. I knew instantly what you meant I knew instantly what you meant, I knew immediately what you would kinda like see as a success and what you’d see as a failure and it was very easy.

GOLDMAN: But Adam says, imagine a different scenario: a company that decides to hire a bunch of employees from all over the world. They have different expertise, different cultural references, even different ways of arguing —

ADAM: So you could understand why there would be an initial cost, you know, initial disruption to that. . .

GOLDMAN: Right.

ADAM: . . .but that over time you would start to get the benefit. Like, oh, these peole have a different education, they have different perspective, the benefit comes later. But if you’re the most the most numbers focused profit maximizing CFO, why do I want to be the first one? I’d rather be the eighth one.

GOLDMAN: You don’t have to look far for examples of this. On Monday, Apple’s board of directors rejected a proposal for improving diversity in the company, calling it “unduly burdensome and not necessary.” And that seems to be where we’re at right now with Silicon Valley. A lot of profit-driven companies that would happily be the eighth one to try a new approach.

But Leslie Miley? He doesn’t want to be the eighth one to try this approach. He wants to be the first. Right now, he’s working on a new venture, he can’t tell me much about it yet,  but he believes his company will be the exception in Silicon Valley because it will be staffed with people from all sorts of backgrounds. And he says it’s not all that hard to build a company like this. You just need to ask people you’re interviewing a new set of questions that most companies aren’t asking yet.

LESLIE: What I really need to do is look for the best talent given a kind of a list of different. . .differing criteria. Like “How did you get to where you are?”

GOLDMAN: How did you get to where you are. Which is to say, “You made it here, to this interview. You’ve probably overcome a lot of obstacles to do that. I’d like to hear about it.”

GOLDMAN [to LESLIE]: And do you think that that’s a question that should be asked in lieu of “What Ivy league school did you attend, or even what school did you attend?”

LESLIE: I totally think that’s a question people should ask. If you’re not asking that question, you know, if you’re not answerin that question you’re not hiring, you know, you’re nor hiring right. You know, I want to hear people say, “Hey yeah I had to go to community college,” or “I had to take a year off because I didn’t have the .” You know, I mean those are the experiences I want to hear from people, you know, because it shows that they’re that they have they, I don’t want to say more rounded, but they’re rounded individuals they have different life experiences and they’re going to bring it to the table.”

GOLDMAN: This idea that Adam Davidson brought up–that diverse teams can slow a company down, cost it time and money–I brought it to Leslie and he just didn’t seem to care.

LESLIE: I’ve read a lot of the studies about having diverse teams can impact efficiency and I think that’s absolutely the case in most cases that it does because people have to learn their different communication styles. They have to start having a greater understanding of the person they’re working with, you know, as a human being. So it is going. . . it is going to create friction. It’s going to cause friction. It’s going to slow things down initially.  And for those of you who say, “Hey, we have to move fast so we just want to get people who all know the same thing.” You know, I I I I say, “Go to hell.” Because that’s just your, that’s lazy. We should all be trying to get better. And if getting better means you have to be uncomfortable for a little while, you know what? So be it.

Twitter declined to comment specifically on Leslie’s story, or to talk to us for this piece. A spokesperson sent us a statement about the company’s commitment to diversity, which you can read on our website.

Reply All is PJ Vogt and me, Alex Goldman. We were produced this week by Tim Howard, Sruthi Pinnamaneni, and Phia Bennin. Our editor is Peter Clowney. Production assistance from Mervyn Degaños. We were mixed by Rick Kwan.

Matt Lieber is one of those nights that is so fun and gets so out of hand that when you describe to your friends you can tell that they don’t totally believe you.

Special thanks this week to Shankar Vedantam of the Hidden Brain Podcast for all his help with this episode.

Our theme song is by the mysterious Breakmaster Cylinder and our ad music is by Build Buildings.

Thanks to the Raya Brass Band for use of their song “Unify.”

You can find us on our website, replyall.fail or in iTunes at itunes.com/replyall.

We’re taking next week off to work on some stories so we’ll see you in a couple weeks. Thanks for listening.

ALEX GOLDMAN: From Gimlet, this is Reply All, a show about the internet. I’m Alex Goldman.

PJ VOGT: And I’m PJ Vogt. And this week, Reply All producer Sruthi Pinnamaneni is joining us in the studio, probably because she reported a story.

SRUTHI PINNAMANENI: That’s correct. I have for you guys today, a mystery.

ALEX: Wrong show.

PJ: Is it an internet related mystery?

SRUTHI: Yes, it is.

ALEX: Right show.

SRUTHI: Okay. So this is a story about a woman whose body started breaking down in increasingly weird ways. It’s as if her body turns into a David Lynch movie, and there’s nothing she can do to understand it, and nothing she can do to convince people it’s real. For the purposes of the story, we will call this woman “Hope.” And it all starts last year. Hope is 29, living in the suburbs of Pittsburgh. And one beautiful winter morning…

HOPE: I was walking at a soccer field that’s near my house when I first noticed, “Well that feels weird, my eye feels such a weird nagging eye pressure. Almost like my eye was bulging a little bit, from the inside out.

SRUTHI: It’s so bad that she feels as if people can see it, like it’s bulging so much, this one eye.

PJ: Can she, like if she stands in front of the bathroom mirror and stares at her face, can she feel like she can see her eye bulging?

SRUTHI: No. So it goes on for a couple of weeks, doesn’t go away. And then she says you know what, I’m just gonna have this looked at.

HOPE: I actually just went to the eye doctor that’s in Walmart, and she looked at my eye, and she didn’t find anything at all wrong with the eye. The eye was perfectly healthy and normal.

SRUTHI: This bulging feeling, it goes on for a whole month. And then one day, she wakes up and it’s gone.

HOPE: This would, be I should say this, this would be something in my life that I would probably never give a second thought to, this mild eye problem that I had for a month, if… what happened next hadn’t happened.

SRUTHI: It’s evening. Hope is working. She’s a wedding photographer, and she’s setting up room in her house where she can meet clients.

HOPE: And all of the sudden I stood up, and I couldn’t see out of my right eye. I thought, “Oh my gosh, am I having a stroke?” I had field of vision in like three-quarters of the eye, but the one quarter was completely covered by this weird zigzag freaky thing. It’s almost like a kaleidoscope when you were a kid, and you used to hold up a kaleidoscope to your eye and it would… it would like shine and shimmer, like a piece of mirrored paper in there. So I actually remember waking up my sister, and she said “what are you talking about?” and I said “I can’t see out of my eye, I’m freaking out.”

SRUTHI: The weird zig zag kaleidoscope thing goes on for 10 to 15 minutes. It only goes away when she lies down.

PJ: And does the eye that this is happening in, is it her stronger eye?

SRUTHI: It’s her right eye. So here, she has a couple of theories, right, cuz she wakes up…

PJ: Wait, I have more questions! When she looks into the camera to take pictures does she use her right eye?

SRUTHI: That’s exactly what I asked her.

HOPE: When I’m shooting, that is the eye that I constantly pinch close. I constantly wink that eye. Constantly. You know, 12 hours a day when I shoot a wedding, 14 hours a day… So I started thinking, well maybe I just damaged it from overuse.

SRUTHI: From over, overblinking?

HOPE: Right! Overwinking I guess.

SRUTHI: She starts Googling this zigzag eye thing and finds out, it has a name. It’s called a scintillating scotoma, and it’s a type of migraine. And Hope, she has a long history of migraines. At the same time that this is happening, she’s starting to get really tired. Like winded-walking-up-the stairs tired. And like I said, she’s a wedding photographer, so this makes things really awkward with her clients. She’s huffing and puffing trying to keep up with them.

HOPE: I would try to kind of hide that. So, I would try to go a little slower. I would say, “Oh my gear’s really heavy.” Just because who wants to hear someone complaining about being out of shape. You’re 30. Sorry.

SRUTHI: And then the headaches that she used to get, she starts having them all the time. Like this deep pressure behind one eye. A few times she went to see her doctor, and he gave her headache medicine.

HOPE: He told me not to worry, that it was nothing major, he didn’t see any major problems.

SRUTHI: Did you feel better?

HOPE: I… didn’t feel better and I didn’t feel worse. I just felt the same. So, the day that I remember as something was really, really, really wrong and frightening was December the 14th, of 14, I remember that, it was 12/14/14.

SRUTHI: That’s the day that she and her sister go Christmas decoration shopping. They’re in this big warehouse. And she’s walking around, in a good mood, taking selfies with a christmas garland around her neck, and then suddenly, she’s hit with this sensation.

HOPE: it was so… so indescribable.

SRUTHI: It’s like she’s standing on a seesaw, and the whole floor is shifting up and down beneath her.

HOPE: And with that, I got a wave of nausea. So at that point, I was like, this isn’t, this is not good. I don’t know what this is, but this is really not good.

SRUTHI: From this point, these waves of dizziness, they start coming every day, at least 4 or 5 times a day she says, and they last a whole minute. And her headaches, which had seemed so bad they couldn’t possibly get worse? They get worse.

HOPE: I remember being in the shower, and it hit me like, it just hit me like a ton of bricks. Like I had to lean against the shower wall with how strong this headache was. And just all day pain, every day. I actually believe that the pain was giving me panic attacks. I was lying in bed, and I felt that I couldn’t catch my breath, because the pain was so strong.

SRUTHI: I mean, it sounds, to me just listening to it, it sounds really scary. Is any part of it, like, is it even hard for you to remember exactly what it was like to be in your head at that time?

HOPE: Um, I think mainly I feel shame talking about because… I just remember feeling completely alone at that point. I will say this. Three years before I got sick, so back in April of 2012, my husband had passed away. So, I feel like… It’s hard to even talk about it… um…

SRUTHI: I’m so sorry.

HOPE: It’s okay. Um. I know it’s like, there’s nothing you can say, you know? Um… yeah.

SRUTHI: It was very unexpected for you?

HOPE: It was very unexpected. It was shocking… um… It was like the last person that you would ever expect to take their own life. I feel like a lot of people were thinking that this was like, anxiety, or this was a physical manifestation of grief, or maybe I was upset about the holidays, because it is a tough time of course. I think people were thinking that… like, in their mind, like she finally cracked. Or that like, you know, her husband passed away a few years ago and maybe now she’s having this breakdown. And I remember having long, long conversations with my mom on the phone when I was lying in bed in the dark and she was at her house. I remember saying like, “Mom, what if this isn’t real? I don’t know at this point.” I started getting so confused.

SRUTHI: Mmhmm.

HOPE: I’m like, everyone says there’s nothing wrong with me. But I feel so sick. Could this be emotional pain? Could I be making myself ill?

SRUTHI: It’s just before Christmas. She drags herself the ER. And the doctors check her out, and they say, “You look fine.” And Hope says, “Can you do a brain scan, anything?” and they say again, “Don’t worry, you’re not having a stroke. Here, we’ll give you some migraine medicine, and you’ll be fine.”

PJ: So basically they just, they just keep saying here’s some headache medicine, go home.

SRUTHI: Yeah, exactly. So Hope says by this point none of the medicines touch her pain. And even more strange things are taking over her body. Like, she starts to hear a fluttering in her ears.

ALEX: Like, what do you mean, like a pulse?

SRUTHI: She describes it like a butterfly beating its wings, but inside her ear. And parts of her body, like the palm of her hand, start to twitch uncontrollably. And she has facial numbness. This was the one that freaks her out the most. If she touches a part of her cheek, her nose goes numb. It feels as if her body is just falling apart. She starts seeing a series of doctors. Neurologists. Headache specialists. A rheumatologist. She makes a big folder, an exhaustive log of all her symptoms, a timeline and every doctor she would go to, she would show this to them.

HOPE: I just felt like they never even had time to review it. They would just take it, flip through it, and be like, “So you have migraines. You have anxiety.” And there came a point where I was so frustrated, I was like, “I don’t want to hear that it’s migraines. Most people do not have a migraine for four months straight. With twitching and ringing in the ear, it just, that’s not what it is.”

SRUTHI: She gets an MRI, she says she actually has to beg for one, and the results are clear: there’s nothing wrong with her brain.

HOPE: I just, I was at my wit’s end, and I just didn’t know which way to turn. And I would discuss it with my parents, I said, “I have been to everybody. Nobody can help.” I just couldn’t… there was just no more… There was no more options for me.

SRUTHI: Okay so, at this point, before I tell you what happens next, do you guys have any theories?

PJ: I don’t think, I’m not a doctor. But I just think like, as much as depression and anxiety can manifest in weird physical stuff, it’s just like, it’s so, the symptoms are so baroque and it’s happening so late after the fact. What is happening to her is super weird and everyone’s like, you’re depressed, take some Advil. I just feel like it’s something weirder.

ALEX: In my head I’m like going to very strange places. This is, it’s weird, because I’m trying to be like House, you know, in this circumstance, and…

PJ: What would House do?

ALEX: I don’t know, House would be very angry and limp around.

PJ: You’re there.

ALEX: Oh wow, that really is me.

PJ: Yeah.

ALEX: But I feel like now my thought is like maybe she has some sort of inner ear problem.

PJ: Oh!

ALEX: Like that’s causing imbalance, and when she lies down, it helps her out. But how does that explain the eye?

PJ: This is so stupid but is she like doing a diet thing differently?

SRUTHI: So she tried that. Someone said maybe it’s gluten, so she went…

PJ: That’s what, my mom is like, anything that goes wrong in my life, she’s convinced I have a gluten thing. So I’ll be like, things aren’t working with like, my co-host, and she’s like, “You got gluten.” Seriously. Had she traveled anywhere?

SRUTHI: No.

PJ: Was there like a weird toxic chemical factory in her town?

SRUTHI: It’s Pittsburgh.

PJ: Good Pittsburgh burn. Sruthi, are you going to tell us what happened?

SRUTHI: Yes.

PJ: Are you going to tell us before or after the break?

SRUTHI: After.

PJ: Okay. Should people who are listening sit there while they think about Stamps.com or Squarespace or whatever and come up with their own theories?

SRUTHI: Yes. They can also look to the internet.

ALEX: Is the implication that she is going to look to the internet?

SRUTHI: Perhaps.

ALEX: Ooh. I’m excited to find out what happens after the break.

PJ: It’s weird that we genuinely don’t know. Uh, coming up, I have no idea. I have no idea what’s coming up. Coming up, something else and hopefully an answer, otherwise it’ll be very frustrating.

BREAK

PJ: Here’s what happened Sruthi. We just listened to two minutes of advertisement. And you’re supposed to tell us what’s going on now.

SRUTHI: Alright. By this point in Hope’s story, it’s the spring of 2015. She’s seen eight doctors, spent thousands of dollars on medical bills. She’s too sick to really work. And she starts to do her own research. She starts off by reading online, do you guys know that New York Times column, it’s called Diagnosis?

ALEX: Yes!

SRUTHI: Yes!

PJ: No!

SRUTHI: Okay. So, there’s a doctor, her name is Lisa Sanders, she is a professor at Yale University, she’s a practicing doctor, and she’s done this amazing column for the Times called Diagnosis, that always presents a mysterious case, and then, eventually, like the next week, she gives readers the answer.

PJ: She makes them wait a week?

SRUTHI: Yeah, she does.

PJ: That’s cool.

SRUTHI: She’s also the inspiration for House!

PJ: Oh, you should’ve just said that. That’s awesome.

SRUTHI: The column is an inspiration for House, I should say. So Hope reads every single column that Lisa’s ever written. You know, there’s all of these mysterious cases, and she’s hoping that one of these cases would be like hers. And somewhere, in one of those articles, she sees a comment about a website called CrowdMed. It’s a website for patients who feel as if whatever they have hasn’t been diagnosed, or has been diagnosed incorrectly. And they feel as if their doctors aren’t actually listening to them.

HOPE: So I went to the website, and it said that um, I believe that it said that Patrick Dempsey who’s on that show Grey’s Anatomy was an investor. Now, part of me was like, “Oh, he, that seems credible. He has money.”

SRUTHI: That’s absurd!

HOPE: The other part of me was like, “He plays a doctor on TV. This… I don’t know about this.”

SRUTHI: The website, they’ve got a bunch of people who they call medical detectives.

ALEX: And are they all MDs, or are they…

SRUTHI: Yeah, they’re a mix, so some of them are doctors, retired doctors, nurses, academics who are really well-versed in a particular disease, like, say Lyme disease. And then there are also people that have nothing to do with medicine, so either patients, or, you know people who are obsessed with Lyme disease, who just go on there to read about cases and discuss solutions. But the thing that really got my attention in the beginning was CrowdMed says that 60% of their patients report that the site helped get them closer to a cure.

PJ: That’s crazy. Uh. I would like to see this website. Can we see this website?

SRUTHI: Yeah. Let me just pull it up here…

PJ: It looks like Airbnb a little bit actually, like it’s, you know what I mean?

SRUTHI: Yeah. There’s like “submit a case,” “solve medical cases,” “how it works.”

PJ: And the first thing you see is just like a big, pretty picture. Very therapeutic looking closeup of two people holding hands, and like a gentle, non-serif font. It’s just like, here’s a friendly clean place where we’re not gonna scam you.

SRUTHI: Yeah.

PJ: Have you ever been to a fancy doctor’s office?

SRUTHI: Yeah, and this makes me think of that, like white walls, sleek furniture.

PJ: Like, a doctor’s office where you would maybe Shazam a song you heard in the lobby.

SRUTHI: So Hope decides to give it a shot. She chooses the standard package, which means she pays $500, of which $300 will to the detectives who solve her case.

PJ: So it’s a bounty.

SRUTHI: Mhmmm.

PJ: But who determines if a case is solved?

SRUTHI: The case is solved if the patient says it’s solved.

PJ: Got it. The customer’s always right.

SRUTHI: Exactly.

HOPE: So I wrote up everything. Put my whole history on there, I put any test results I had, I put all my bloodwork on there. And you could even say, “What, like, what diagnoses do you not want to hear?” So I put, “Please do not say migraine, please don’t say anxiety.” Like, I’m open to other suggestions, but don’t put those two things there.

SRUTHI: How did it feel for you to be able to say that and actually know?

HOPE: Oh, it felt great. It felt great, but I thought people were probably still going to put that.

SRUTHI: The system generates a screenname for her. She’s assigned “Hope.” She hits submit. Prays that she didn’t just waste hundred of dollars. But by morning.

HOPE: I already had two, three, four people commenting on it and reading it. I just remember thinking like, wow, I can’t believe people actually read it already, I can’t believe there’s actually a few people out there listening to me.

SRUTHI: Right away, people are asking her questions: have you had changes to your skin, have you had hair loss? How about a metallic taste in your mouth? They send her academic papers to read.

HOPE: So um, they kind of did a dialogue. And I wrote back to every person. Like, I wasn’t messing around. I wrote to every single person that wrote to me, and answered every one of their questions.

SRUTHI: And there are four or five people who really get into her case. All you can see is their screennames, so VidaBuena, Flocascio… I spoke to one of them, kwalk21.

SRUTHI: Tell me about what you do, cuz you sound very busy.

KYLE WALKER: Uh, yes. So currently I do research in the orthopedic department at the Cleveland Clinic. I’m also a licensed physician in Ohio, and I also do some side clinics on the weekend in pain and addiction medicine.

SRUTHI: Kwalk21, his name is Kyle, he signed up to be a medical detective on CrowdMed last year. He was doing a lot of research and wanted to stay fresh on his medical knowledge.

KYLE: Now I’m like one of, probably like, I think the fifteenth ranked person on the site or something?

SRUTHI: Hey, not bad!

KYLE: So… yeah, yeah. So, I’ve been pretty actively involved, I think…

SRUTHI: Is it addictive?

KYLE: It gets to be pretty addictive, especially when you’re involved in a case, because you kinda wanna see how it plays out.

SRUTHI: Kyle says he was drawn to Hope’s case right away. The first thing he thinks is:

KYLE: This is probably vascular in origin.

SRUTHI: Something to do with her blood vessels. Because her illness is affecting multiple parts of her body.

KYLE: I was particularly concerned that it may be some type of stroke-related illness that she’s having, or transient ischemic attack or something along those lines. So I think I messaged her fairly, actually it looks like I messaged her at 11 am. I must have been doing this at work.

SRUTHI: And Hope writes back to him immediately. She says, thanks so much, I’ve had a neck ultrasound, and the doctors say that everything’s normal with my blood supply. She and Kyle have a back and forth. And at the same time other people are writing to her, asking how about a cerebrospinal fluid leak? Or, maybe it’s leaky gut syndrome? Maybe it’s a parasite? So actually, let me show you her case on CrowdMed. You can see this bar…

PJ: What are the bar graphs?

SRUTHI: Yeah, so those are the different diagnoses. How many people said it was that. And…

PJ: That’s cool. It’s like a wisdom of a crowd thing. But it just shouldn’t work, because you should need too high of a level of expertise for this to work.

SRUTHI: Right. And so, she says eventually what started happening is, that answers started clustering in one direction.

HOPE: It seemed to start to center around the neck. At first I just dismissed that because I didn’t have any pain in my neck at all.

SRUTHI: But then she thought about this one thing that had happened to her, which was, she was in a restaurant with her sister,

HOPE: And I remember at one point turning my head sharply, to look at something in the restaurant and almost feeling like I was going to black out at that moment. Like my vision went dark for a second. So I started thinking, well, maybe it is the neck. At the time, I was carrying a camera around my neck with a neckstrap all the time. All the time.

SRUTHI: Ohhhhhh…

HOPE: It weighs probably, when it’s fully loaded, for a large part of the wedding, it probably weighs… twelve pounds, in that range. And then you’re constantly raising the camera up and then you bring it down and tilt it, like 100 percent, the whole way down, to be able to look at the LCD. And then you’d bring it up again. And so you probably do this… I mean a thousand, two thousand, three thousand times during a wedding, every couple of seconds, checking your screen, checking your screen.

SRUTHI: One CrowdMed detective says maybe all this lifting has strained a muscle in Hope’s neck. He says maybe it’s this muscle, the sternocleidomastoid muscle. I’ve been practicing saying that all week.

PJ AND SRUTHI: Sterno-cleido-mastoid.

SRUTHI: Yeah. A.k.a. the SCM muscle. And it’s this broad band that basically goes from your sternum all the way to here, to the clavicle. And it’s a muscle that, it helps you turn your neck back and forth. It also hides, it’s the sheath basically for your carotid arteries.

PJ: Oh! So if that’s messed up, it could be…

SRUTHI: In fact, if you are trying to kill somebody, you should go for the SCM muscle because your arteries are right underneath that so you just do a quick sst.

PJ: That is so messed up, man.

SRUTHI: Anyway, this CrowdMed person sends Hope a chiropractic case study which describes something called SCM syndrome. The symptoms include: Facial numbness. Dizziness. Headaches. So, Hope goes to a physical therapist, who give her stretching exercises for her neck.

HOPE: So after about a week of going to physical therapy, two or three sessions, I finally, finally, finally got rid of the headache for one day. And I just, like, I’m gonna cry because I just couldn’t believe it… I just couldn’t believe that like… it went from being like, the first, first having the headache constantly, to having a few pain-free hours, to being like one day I didn’t have a headache the entire day.

SRUTHI: Mhmmm..

HOPE: I just couldn’t believe it because… I had no life at all. I mean… I remember ringing in the New Year, like, New Year’s Eve, literally laying flat on my back, trying to watch Law & Order SVU through a reflection, but I couldn’t even sit up to see the TV because I had such a bad headache.

SRUTHI: Oh god.

HOPE: I just kept thinking like, I wish… I wish Steve was here to care for me. Because I knew he was the one person that would believe that there was something really wrong, and I didn’t have that support. So I just felt so utterly alone. So like… at least I got rid of the headache. So I still had all of the other symptoms. I still had twitching, I still had ringing in the ears, I still had dizziness. But… I got rid of the headaches.

SRUTHI: After that, Hope goes to a chiropractor, he works on her neck, and then all her symptoms, they slowly… go away.

HOPE: I went to the chiropractor weekly for about 3, 4 months, and eventually I was 100%. So.

SRUTHI: So you’re cured!

HOPE: So that’s eventually what happened.

SRUTHI: So are you 100%?

HOPE: Yes.

SRUTHI: So at this point, Hope says she feels great.

PJ: What? That’s great.

SRUTHI: She still goes and sees a chiropractor once a month, but since August, she’s had pretty much none of the symptoms.

ALEX: So her convalescence is like, super recent. She’s like, back on her feet just over the past couple of months.

SRUTHI: Right. But the one question I still had is what is this SCM muscle, and how could it possibly cause all of these bizarre symptoms? So I thought I would go to the library and read up on it and talk to some doctors and figure it out. I emailed Dr. Lisa Sanders.

PJ: Dr. Real-life House!

SRUTHI: I emailed her, and I said, “Hey, here’s this case and here are the symptoms, and the diagnosis was the SCM muscle, I wonder, can you explain to me how that would work?”

PJ: And?

SRUTHI: And she writes back… “I think this is the wrong diagnosis.”

PJ: WHAT?!

SRUTHI: Yeah.

PJ: How does she know?

SRUTHI: She said that there’s no way that the SCM muscle could cause a bulging in the eye. And she says she’s super worried. She thinks Hope may have a very, very serious condition that could shoot little clots into her brain…and cause a stroke.

ALEX: And could potentially be lethal.

SRUTHI: Yeah. Exactly. So last Friday, all three of us get on the phone:

SRUTHI: Hey Lisa!

LISA SANDERS: Hi! How are you?

SRUTHI: I’m great. I also have Hope on the phone.

HOPE: Hi.

LISA: How are you?

SRUTHI: Lisa explains that when she read Hope’s case, the first thing she thinks is: carotid dissection.

LISA: Well, the carotids are the important arteries that take blood from your heart or just past your heart up to your brain. It’s a very high pressure system. And sometimes small amounts of trauma can tear the inside of that blood vessel creating a different channel.

SRUTHI: And that tear, it affects the blood supply to one side of the brain. So it could explain some of Hope’s symptoms: that pressure she had in one eye, the scintillating scotoma she had in that same eye, those constant headaches.

LISA: You can certainly see them in younger people, especially people who do a lot of heavy lifting and stuff. You know, the most common scenario is you know, a weightlifter, who lifts a lot of weight and then suddenly develops a headache. That’s the classic finding. And the consequences of missing that diagnosis are so significant, that, you know, I was worried about her. After you first communicated with me, I mean, I was worried about her all night long.

SRUTHI: This isn’t a figure of speech. When Lisa got my first email about Hope, she said actually couldn’t sleep.

HOPE: Oh my goodness, yeah. Doctor, no, I really appreciate it, you speaking with me and coming up with your ideas, because like you… I was very concerned you know, when I first got sick that it was something with an artery, a clot, a stroke, something like that. I would make myself sick worrying about it.

SRUTHI: Lisa says she doesn’t know why the chiropractor visits helped Hope so much. But the fact that the symptoms went away does not mean that she’s cured. The carotid dissection is still a real and very dangerous possibility and Lisa’s just not sure.

LISA: We don’t live in a world of certainties in medicine. We only live in a world of possibilities. And the possibility of something terrible happening to somebody because we didn’t think of something is… is the stuff of my nightmares. All doctors’ nightmares. The odds are you don’t have a carotid dissection. But do I feel confident enough to bet your life on it? No.

SRUTHI: Lisa tells Hope that she should think about going back to her doctor and asking for a scan that tests specifically for a carotid dissection. And Lisa also tells Hope that honestly, she’s not that surprised that her doctors were a little dismissive.

LISA: I bet neither of the primary care doctors you went to see were women. Mysterious symptoms in women are so frequently attributed to anxiety. I suspect men more, male doctors more than female doctors, but I could be wrong here. Women are also capable of making the same sort of assumptions. Um, and certainly losing your husband, especially at such a young age, I’m sure was a traumatic and terrible experience for you. However, I think it would be unusual for anxiety and depression to cause neurologic symptoms.

HOPE: Right, exactly. I feel like several of the doctors that I went to were just interested in treating the symptoms, treating the headache, and not really getting to the cause, and the entire time I’ve been worried about something life-threatening, that has kept me up at night, let alone a doctor.

SRUTHI: Lisa, I’m just curious, I have no idea what your opinion about CrowdMed is… do you think Hope could’ve done something better than going to CrowdMed after seeing the series of doctors?

LISA:I think it was a reasonable thing to try. I think CrowdMed has an interesting perspective on this. Obviously I think doctors should be better than crowds… Should be…

HOPE: Of course.

SRUTHI: So the thing is that when Hope’s case was closed on CrowdMed, they actually gave her this case report. It’s big—it’s like this 60 page document with all the possible diagnoses that the detectives came up with and a series of recommendations. So, things she should talk to a doctor about. And right here, number 8 of 15, is get an MRA, so that’s a magnetic resonance angiogram, and that is the exact same test that Lisa just told Hope to get. The problem is, on this same page is also “trigger point massage therapy.” “Probiotic treatment for depression.” “Chair yoga to improve balance.”

PJ: So actually like, Lisa’s advice was in the CrowdMed thing, it was just surrounded by so many other ideas that it got lost. Like, that’s the problem.

SRUTHI: Right.

PJ: Just, I feel like the thing I realize looking at it is that, that just that the size of that file if you’re Hope is really nice. Cuz before that, Hope was going to her doctor and Hope had this binder, and her doctor would not look at the binder, and her doctor had a clipboard. And Hope couldn’t look at the clipboard. And this is like, CrowdMed’s just like, here’s your file. You can look at it. You can talk to us about it. Here’s everything we’re thinking, and maybe we’re wrong about some of this stuff, but we will talk it out and you will be a part of the process. You’re not a patient, you’re the client.

ALEX: You’re actually not just a client. Like, you’re actually involved in the process.

PJ: Right…

ALEX: Because a client sits passively and waits for, like if they were PIs, she would be waiting passively for them to find the thing that she’s looking for. But she’s actually involved in the process of elimination.

SRUTHI: Yeah, that’s kind of a rosy, shiny, happy way of looking at it. But I think it’s an issue that the correct and important test that she should have done is essentially buried. I asked CrowdMed about this and they said, yeah, sometimes the good answers aren’t as high as they should be. But for the most part, the best answers rise to the top.

ALEX: So when are we gonna know anything about Hope?

SRUTHI: So, just this morning, Hope texted me and said that she got approved to get that test. And when she gets her results back, we’ll do an update.

ALEX: Sruthi Pinnamaneni is a producer for our show. Dr. Lisa Sanders wrote a book called “Every Patient Tells a Story.” It’s a collection of medical mysteries. Reply All is hosted by PJ Vogt and me, Alex Goldman. Our producers are Tim Howard, Sruthi Pinnamaneni and Phia Bennin. We were edited by Peter Clowney. Production assistance from Kalila Holt. We were mixed by Rick Kwan. Special thanks to Emily Kennedy, Maureen Dwight, Dr. Ryan Shine, and Dr. Sashi Kilaru. Matt Lieber is waking up in a tent so far from civilization that you can’t even hear the distant hush of tires. Our theme music is by the mysterious Breakmaster Cylinder and our ad music is by Build Buildings. You can find more episodes at itunes.com/replyall. Our website is replyall.limo.

ALEX GOLDMAN: From Gimlet, this is Reply All. I’m Alex Goldman.

PJ VOGT: Alright, Alex. Let’s giddyup and ride one more week. What are we talking about today?

ALEX: We are talking about a law. It’s called The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, or the CFAA. And you should care about it because it makes things that people are doing online all the time illegal. And this law, it’s been in the news lately because of the strange case of this guy named Matthew Keys.

NEWSCASTER: 26-year-old Matthew Keys was formerly employed by Tribune-owned KTXL FOX40…

NEWSCASTER: …connection with an attack on a Tribune Company website that was carried out by the group Anonymous. Joining me now to discuss…

ALEX: Three weeks ago Keys was convicted of hacking on three counts, including something called “transmission of malicious code.”

PJ: Transmission of malicious code.

ALEX: it sounds really sinister, right?

PJ: Yeah, it sounds really sinister.

ALEX: And now he’s facing a bunch of years in jail. So, a little background on the guy. Matthew Keys is a reporter. He covers breaking news stories using social media. And back in 2010, his day job was as a web producer at FOX40, which is a television station in Sacramento. It’s owned by the Tribune company. The Tribune Company is this big media company that owns a bunch of other TV stations and newspapers. So, just keep that in mind. So Keys has this job putting up web pages and stuff like that, and he’s fired in October of that year. He says he quit, but either way he’s not happy with his dismissal. Or departure. So not long after he left the television station started receiving emails that were written by X-Files characters. They were from email addresses like foxmulder4799@yahoo.co.uk.

PJ: Are there other X-Files characters?

ALEX: There’s the Cancer Man.

PJ: Okay.

ALEX: The Tribune Company says that these emails were Keys. Keys denies this whole version of events. In fact, he denies just about everything I’m about to say in the next eight minutes or so. But the Tribune Company says that he’s sending these emails, they were anonymous, and he was saying I’m gonna let the world know that you don’t appreciate your staff, that you fire the wrong people, that you’re taking this place in the wrong direction…

PJ: He’s like a disgruntled ex-employee being like I’m going to blow the whistle on how awful this place is.

ALEX: Yeah but I think that they were just menacing enough that people were actually kind of freaked out by them. So Matthew Keys was doing this for a while, and people at FOX40 are upset about receiving these anonymous kind of creepy emails. And then in December of 2010, Matthew Keys goes totally Nuclear. You see, Keys still has user credentials to access the Tribune Company’s content management system, which is where they post all the content that appears on their websites. I talked to Sarah Jeong, she’s a Vice reporter who covered the Keys trial.

SARAH JEONG: So he dropped user credentials to the Tribune Company content management systems into an Anonymous chatroom, like Anonymous capital A, like the hacktivist group. So like a username and password that would get them access to the entire Tribune CMS.

PJ: So he just went into a roomful of notorious computer hackers, and he said, “Hey guys, I don’t like my old job, here’s the keys to the place, do whatever you want, burn it down…”

ALEX: Yeah, and he was really trying to whip them up. He also said stuff like, “Fox News is not media, it’s infotainment for inbreds. I say we target them.”

PJ: Rude to inbreds.

ALEX: So this guy named Sharpie takes him up on his offer and Keys gives him the username and password and says, “Go fuck some shit up.”

PJ: He says literally that?

ALEX: Yes. He literally types that.

SARAH: The result being that someone defaced a LA Times article for 40 minutes. It’s just like the headline and the deck, which is, you know, like the subtitle, and it just turns, this like really boring article about a tax bill turns into “Chippy1337 Elected Speaker of the House.”

ALEX: So, Chippy1337 seems to be I guess another hacker, and the exact wording that appears on the site is, “Pressure Builds in House to Elect Chippy1337.” And that’s it. It’s probably the most meaningless hack in the history of time. Not to mention pretty short-lived.

SARAH: It was like for 40 minutes. And actually like, no one knows if anyone even saw it. They were never able to get that information during the pretrial process, which is really funny because surely the LA Times has metrics somewhere about whether or not people actually clicked on that article. But yeah, there’s no evidence in this case that anyone ever saw it.

ALEX: So, this is kind of like writing something mean in the sand at high tide. Very likely nobody saw it. Except the guy who changed it back… and the Tribune Company… and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Matthew Keys confessed everything to the FBI on tape and he was indicted in 2013. Sarah was at his trial.

SARAH: I was kind of riveted when they were playing the audio of the confession. He cops to sending those emails, he talks about entering that Anonymous chatroom, he walks about using the handle AESCracked.

MATTHEW KEYS: I did it. There were things that I did. I can’t deny it. I’m not going to now…

SARAH: It’s a very damning piece of audio.

MATTHEW: Can I grab that paper from you? Cuz I’d like to write these down. Thank you. And I’ll start a fresh piece. In fact, I’ll do this on a separate…

FBI AGENT: But I want it to be your own words, man.

MATTHEW: No, I understand.

FBI AGENT: These are the issues that I wanna cover: one is your willingness to cooperate…

SARAH: And at the beginning there’s no hint of this, but at the very end he mentions that he’s in his pajamas.

ALEX: Huh.

SARAH: Yeah, and that’s sort of how I came to realize that this entire interview took place in Matthew Key’s bedroom, right?

ALEX: Right.

SARAH: So he’s sitting on the bed, the two agents are sitting on chairs from the dining room, and the agents get him to write out a confession while he’s still in his pajamas and supposedly on these sleep medication pills.

ALEX: So, he later recanted that confession because he said he’d taken a double dose of Trazidone, but the confession itself was super specific. It matched with everything that the FBI already knew, they found screenshots of the hack on his computer, there was just a ton of evidence pointing to this being something that he had done.

PJ: Right, there’s not a lot of sleeping pills that people take that make them confess in specific detail to crimes that they didn’t do and weren’t involved with.

ALEX: Right. But the most interesting aspect of this case hasn’t been whether Matthew Keys is actually guilty or not. The most interesting thing is the question of how much money it cost the Tribune Company to fix that dumb headline about Chippy1337. Because the more money that this hack cost the Tribune, the more time Matthew Keys could spend in jail. So at first, the Tribune Company as the victim, they go to the court and they provide a number. $5000.

PJ: That’s absurd. I used to have to fix broken webpages. I would have changed that headline for 20 bucks.

ALEX: I agree, it doesn’t seem that costly. But Sarah Jeong said that when she mentioned that $5000 damage estimate on Twitter…

SARAH: I got sort of this pile-on of info security professionals all competing to tell me how high their rates are.

ALEX: how much were they saying the rates were?

SARAH: Oh man, they were talking, you know, “I won’t get up in the middle of the night for less than like $1000 an hour” kind of thing. And basically what I’ve come to gather from that is that $5000 is really easy to clear.

ALEX: And for Matthew Keys, this $5000 figure is really bad news. Because $5000 is the threshold at which a hacking crime can be moved from a misdemeanor to a felony.

PJ: Very interesting that when they crunch the numbers it turned out he’d done exactly the amount of monetary damage that would make it a felony.

ALEX: But that is just the first number. Because once the trial gets underway, that number, the estimated cost of this hack, it’s gone up. It’s gone up to $17,650.

PJ: Can we just call that $18,000?

ALEX: Yes.

PJ: So $5000 got him arrested, when they get to trial they’ve already raised it to $18,000. How did they go from 5 to 18, like they must have said something to a judge, what did they say?

ALEX: They said that the $18,000 amount was based on 333 hours of Tribune Company work to diagnose and fix this. So the prosecution sticks to that number for the length of the trial. That the Chippy1337 Hack cost the Tribune Company $17,650. And then, three weeks ago, October 7th, Matthew Keys is found guilty. And the Tribune Company at that point floats one more number, and it’s a number they’re likely to use during sentencing for how much this hack actually costs. They will say that this hack actually costs $929,977.

PJ: That’s insane. That is a million dollars. That is what that number really is. That’s crazy. From 18 to a million is crazy. So follow up question: how long do you go to jail for changing what is apparently a million dollar sentence on a website?

ALEX: According to the sentencing guidelines, a million dollars in damage is worth about five years in prison. So I called Matthew Keys’s lawyer, Tor Ekeland, and he told me that five years would be ridiculous sentence for this crime.

TOR EKELAND: There was like, frickin a few words were edited in one paragraph of an LA Times website story. And I think that’s why the prosecution actually went and tried to run these loss numbers up, because they realized it looked kinda silly.

ALEX: Ekeland says this is a lot of bitching and moaning from a big company that got really embarrassed, so now the Tribune’s just out for blood. And if anything, he says this matter should be settled in a civil court, not a criminal court.

TOR: Like, let Tribune, the owner of the LA Times, sue Matthew KEys for their damages. You know what I mean? Like this should not be a felony.

ALEX: And I mean you might agree that one tiny headline seems like small potatoes. But there is at least one person who thinks that this argument is just stupid.

MATT SEGAL: Hey, it’s Matt Segal.

ALEX: Hi. How you doing?

MATT: I’m fine, how are you?

ALEX: This is Matt Segal. He prosecuted Matthew Keys. And Segal you can’t just fix the vandalized headline and figure that your work is done.

MATT: The system administrators can’t just say “oh,” they can’t just assume that the thing that they found is the only damage in the system, right? If you find one rat in your house, god forbid, you should not assume that that’s the only one.

ALEX: And Segal says that this is about more than just the Chippy Hack and those emails that he was sending as Fox Mulder or whatever. On his way out the door, Keys stole the email addresses of thousands of FOX40 viewers, and he was sending hate mail about the television station to the viewers. And didn’t just give Anonymous the password and admin privileges to the Tribune site. He kept pushing them to mess stuff up.

MATT: The username in the chatroom that Keys admitted to using, AESCracked, pops back in from time to time, and urges the hackers of Anonymous to do something, and identifies Tribune properties that he thinks would have the greatest impact. And for the LA Times, AESCracked posted a link to some opinion piece in the LA Times that said, it was kind of critical of WikiLeaks, and said, “Yet one more reason why the Los Angeles Times must be demolished.”

ALEX: Saying “the LA Times must be demolished” doesn’t sound like a prank. Matt Segal sees real malice in what Keys did. And while you could say Keys didn’t break very much, that doesn’t really matter. That’s not how the law works.

MATT: In every other case, not just hacking cases, people are liable not just for the crime that they succeed in doing, but for the crime that they conspire to do or attempt to do. Because it’s that that measures their moral culpability. That’s what they set out to do. And sentencing law accounts for that.

ALEX: When we come back from the break, the law that Matthew Keys is going to be sentenced under. Why people hate it, why prosecutors love it, and why maybe, just maybe, you should be afraid of it.

BREAK

ALEX: Welcome back to the show. The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the law at the center of the Matthew Keys case: it was written back in 1986, and at the time, no one really knew what a hacker was. Legislators actually watched the movie “War Games” in congressional hearings to show people how dangerous hackers could be.

COMPUTER: Shall we play a game?

MATTHEW BRODERICK: Oh!

ALLY SHEEDY: I think it missed him.

MATTHEW BRODERICK: Yeah. Weird, isn’t it? Love to…

ALEX: And if you’ve seen that movie, you know that the worst case scenario is global thermonuclear war.

MATTHEW BRODERICK: …thermonuclear war.

COMPUTER: Fine.

ALEX: So, the stakes were high.

MIKE MASNICK: The idea of computer hacking seems really scary, and it’s a really easy one for them to say, “Well, something must be done” and to push solutions where they don’t really understand how they’re going to be used.

ALEX: This is Mike Masnick of the website TechDirt. He says that lawmakers wrote the CFAA before the worldwide web even existed, and they really had no idea just how far-reaching this new law would turn out to be.

MIKE: It’s written so broadly and in such a bizarre way, that it’s really easy to use against lots of people doing things that most people would not think of as criminal, let alone as some sort of computer hacking kind of thing.

ALEX: But prosecutors love it. The CFAA is like flypaper for bad people who aren’t necessarily hackers, but whom authorities really want to put in prison. Kind of like how the tax code was used to put away Al Capone. For example, you know the cannibal cop, the New York police officer who was fantasizing about eating people?

PJ: Yes, I do.

ALEX: Well, the authorities couldn’t get a conspiracy to kidnap charge to stick, but he went to jail for using a police database to look up the women he was fantasizing about. Sarah Jeong told me about another creepy case.

SARAH: So this guy would like, follow women around that he met through prayer groups, right? He joined these prayer groups to creep on women and one of the ways that he’d creep on them is, I guess that he was working at the IRS and he would like, search them in the database, find all their information, and get their addresses. And like usually he wouldn’t do anything with this information at all. So, a bunch of these women didn’t even know he was stalking them. But some of the women knew because he’d like go to their houses and send them creepy presents and stuff like that. The feds couldn’t get charges to stick except for under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. When nothing else sticks, you can always turn to the CFAA.

ALEX: And the reason this is the law that sticks is because it criminalizes what it calls “unauthorized access.” And this doesn’t have to mean hacking into Norad like they do in “War Games.” It could be almost anything. Like, say you use a fake name on Facebook.

PJ: Yes, I have done that.
ALEX: That violates Facebook’s terms of service, which could be considered a violation of the CFAA.

PJ: Can I throw other grand acts of malfeasance from my life at you?

ALEX: Yeah!

PJ: So like for instance, I have a friend who definitely does not remember that I know his Netflix login, and I watch Netflix exclusively through stolen access to his account. I haven’t talked to him in 15 years.

ALEX: Yeah, that violates the CFAA. The law has been used to go after people who have violated their MySpace terms of service, people who have looked at Facebook in violation of their company’s computer usage guidelines. And that’s why organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Demand Progress are so worked up about it. Because a law that every single person has broken becomes a weapon that can be wielded against anyone who ends up on the wrong side of a prosecutor.

PJ: But the government is not actually gonna go after me for something that innocuous, right?

ALEX: I mean no, probably not. But their point is that a law this broad always gives the government an option. And people who may not deserve it have been swept up by this law. The most notorious example being Aaron Swartz.

INTERVIEWER: Um, why do you do what you do?

AARON SWARTZ: That’ s a good question, I mean I, you know, feel very strongly…

ALEX: This is an interview Aaron did in 2010 with a website called SpunOut

AARON: It’s not enough to just live in the world as it is, to just kind of take what you’re given and follow the things that adults told you to do and that your parents told you to do and that society tells you to do. I think you should always be questioning…

ALEX: So Aaron Swartz was like this internet boy genius. When he was fourteen, he helped invent RSS feeds, he later helped create Reddit, and his big vision was for a much more free and open internet. So in his early 20’s, while he was at Harvard as a research fellow, he met this woman named Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman. They started dating, and then Aaron told her that he’d recently gotten into some trouble.

TAREN STINEBRICKNER-KAUFFMAN: I knew there was something big and bad in his life but I didn’t know, he referred to it as “the bad thing.” And I didn’t know what it was.

ALEX: Like how often was it talked about?

TAREN: You know, he would mention it somewhat regularly, like he came to visit me in Washington DC after we started dating and he had to do a phone call about the bad thing. He called me, I was at frisbee practice. Ultimate frisbee and he called me and he said he thought the bad thing might be in the papers the next day and did I wanna know what it was or did I want to read about it in the papers. And I said I wanted to know what it was, and he told me that he had, he was gonna be indicted for downloading too many academic journal articles. And they wanted to make an example out of him. And I was like, that’s all? That’s the bad thing?

ALEX: In september of 2010, Aaron had snuck into a server closet at MIT and downloaded 4.8 million academic articles from a database called JSTOR. He could have distributed these articles online, but he never did. Nonetheless, he was charged with 13 felonies and faced 35 years in prison and a 1 million dollar fine.

TAREN: I remember how scared he was. I remember him being scared to leave his apartment door unlocked for even a moment. Because if the door was unlocked, then the police didn’t need a warrant to come in. It was paranoia but in the sane sense, right, there actually were people out to get him. And that’s totally draining.

ALEX: The prosecution offered Aaron a plea deal of 6 months in prison if he plead guilty to all 13 of these felonies, but he refused.

TAREN: He just couldn’t. He couldn’t deal with the prospect of having a felony on his record because of the things that he wanted to do with his life. It would have made it difficult for him to do all, it would have made it difficult for him to travel, it would have made it difficult or impossible for him to get elected to public office. And for Aaron, he felt it would keep it back from his, the thing he cared about most, which was changing the world.

ALEX: Aaron was paranoid and terrified at the prospect of going to prison, and being a convicted felon. And unfortunately on top of all that he struggled with depression. A month before his trial was set to begin, Aaron took his own life. He was 26. Aaron Swartz’s death brought all kinds of new attention to his case. And the thrust of that attention was why would the justice system come down so hard on him? Why Aaron? Why prison?

TAREN: These are academic journal articles, written by scientists. Many of them funded by the federal government. In the pursuit of furthering human knowledge. And even if Aaron had been planning to put them on the internet, which we don’t know that he was, even if that was his plan, they were just completely wrong about whether this was something that someone should go to prison for, regardless of the motivation, regardless of what, like there’s no version of events that anyone has put forward that is something that you should go to prison for, for 30 years, there just isn’t one.

ALEX: After Aaron’s death, there was a strong push to change the CFAA, to revise it to target malicious hackers more narrowly—folks like identity thieves and virus creators—and to make it against the law to charge someone for breaking the terms of service on something like Facebook or iTunes. The draft of this reform bill was called “Aaron’s Law.” But according to Mike Masnick, Congress was never going to go for it.

MIKE: I mean, there just really wasn’t any appetite to reform the CFAA in that direction. You have law enforcement that really likes the CFAA, they like having that and the ability to pile on additional charges and use them. You also have a number of private companies that actually do like the CFAA. And you know, lobbied pretty hard against any kind of amending CFAA.

ALEX: Aaron’s law died in committee. At the same time, the Obama administration has asked that the CFAA actually be broadened, to make sentences longer and to stop more crimes by expanding the definition of “unauthorized access.” This is the president from this year’s State of the Union.

BARACK OBAMA: Tonight, I urge this Congress to finally pass the legislation we need to better meet the evolving threat of cyber attacks, combat identity theft, and protect our children’s information. That should be a bipartisan effort.

[Applause]

ALEX: As for Matthew Keys, he is scheduled to be sentenced in January of next year. He plans to appeal.

ALEX: Reply All is hosted by PJ Vogt and me, Alex Goldman. Our producers are Tim Howard, Sruthi Pinnamaneni, and Phia Bennin. Our editor is Peter Clowney. Production assistance from Kalila Holt. We were mixed by Rick Kwan. Special thanks to Emily Kennedy. Matt Lieber is a surprise party you secretly hoped for, but you never let yourself expect. Our theme music is by the mysterious Breakmaster Cylinder and our ad music is by Build Buildings. You can find more episodes itunes.com/replyall. Our website is replyall.soy. Gimlet Producer Matthew Nelson would like more Twitter followers, so you can help him out by following him at the Twitter handle @mattyfatpants.

PJ VOGT: At thebarnjournal.org, the website with general information about barns and traditional farm architecture, there’s only one Frequently Asked Questioned listed: “Why are barns red?” North Korea’s propaganda webpage at one point had an FAQ aimed at people in the West. Question 24: “Is it true that all citizens of the DPRK work for the government?” Answer: “Government and people are one. There is no distinction of them.” It also answered the question, can I travel to North Korea as a backpacker? The answer is: “No.”

Frito-Lay’s FAQs are filled with longing and loss. “Where can I find a Frito Lay snack?” “Why was my favorite snack discontinued?”

I think that the reason that I love Frequently Asked Questions so much is that unlike most pieces of writing–which tend to tell you a lot about the writer–FAQs tell you a lot about the readers. Reading them you can imagine this enormous mob of people. Maybe they know each other. Maybe they don’t. Bu they’re all united because they have seen the same thing and together they have not understood it.

This week we have a story about a big group of people with the same questions–difficult, complicated, heartbreaking ones. And these people have one other thing in common — they’re all Mormon. So we asked our friend Karen Duffin to look into this.

In addition to being a brilliant reporter, she also has the best Mormon credentials of anybody I know. She’s no longer in the church, but she grew up Mormon. She was the student body vice president of Brigham University and she’s a direct descendant of the bodyguard of Joseph Smith himself. Karen, hello.

KAREN DUFFIN: Hi, PJ. Hi, Alex

ALEX GOLDMAN: Hey, Karen. So we heard that there was this huge crisis in the Mormon church that has something to do with the internet, so we got in touch with you because you are way more equipped to tell the story than we are.

KAREN: Yeah, so I looked into it and I called several people at the Mormon church and none of them would talk to me. But we were able to gather a lot of emails and documents and talk to lots of people on and off the record. And what I found was super fascinating, but it’ll really only make sense if I give you a blazing fast Mormon 101.

PJ: Okay. Let’s do it.

KAREN: The premise of the Mormon church is that when Jesus died and left us, his church, like, everybody went into apostasy and went astray, and there was this guy named Joseph Smith who was living in New York. He’s 14 years old and he’s like, “I don’t know what church to join.” So the story is that he went into the woods and he said, “God, what’s the true church cuz I don’t think there is one.” And Jesus and Heavenly Father, God, appear to him and say, “There’s no true church, like, you get to start Jesus’s new church.”

ALEX: Is the reason that it’s called The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints because the saints are relatively recent?

KAREN: They’re actually latter-day saints.

PJ: It’s a lot like Saved By the Bell: The New Class.

KAREN: It’s a lot like Saved By the Bell: The New Class. But actually that’s kind of true. I mean, that’s what’s at the heart of this story. Because that moment when Joseph walked into the woods? That was less than 200 years ago. It was 1820.

ALEX: Wow. That’s. . .super young church

PJ: That’s Abraham Lincoln times.

KAREN: Yeah, and the fact that it’s young, it means that all of the miracles, Joseph Smith’s story. Like, a lot of this is fact checkable.

ALEX: Right I guess if there is like, government documents and things like that. . .

PJ: Daguerreotypes! There’s probably daguerreotypes!

ALEX: Yeah. Sure. Daguerreotypes.

KAREN: Right. Right. And these documents that the church is built on, they still exist. So, you know, there’s birth certificates and diaries. There’s the actual, original manuscript of the Book of Mormon.

PJ: So if you’re Mormon, can you just like go look at them?

KAREN: Well that’s the part that’s a little bit complicated. And I’m going to get to that. But first I want to introduce you to this guy I met named John Dehlin. He lives in this small town northern Utah. He grew up normal, faithful, happy Mormon.

JOHN DEHLIN: You know, I graduated from high school never trying alcohol, never having anything close to sex, never trying tobacco, never trying drugs, and served an LDS mission in Guatemala, and ended up at BYU, Brigham Young University. it was like I lived the Mormon dream.

KAREN: I have to say, as a former Mormon, that a lot of times when people hear that kind of a list they think it sounds oppressive. But what they don’t realize is that this life he’s describing, it can actually kinda great. Like, I loved it. It just, it creates this really tight community because you’re all living this really different lifestyle together. And that’s how John felt about it. Until one day in the early 2000’s, John is preparing for a church lesson and he finds this book in the library. It’s a biography of Joseph Smith and it has all of these historical documents and it’s telling him things that are not in the standard church story.

JOHN: I started to learn things that were deeply troubling and more importantly things that in 30, 31 years of being an active, devout Mormon I had never known before.

KAREN: OK, so one thing was about the Book of Mormon. It’s supposed to be this literal history of Israelites who came to America and they found this huge civilization a couple thousand years ago. And there’s hundreds of thousands of people, but then the civilization collapses. So if that’s literally true, then there should be bones everywhere. There should be archaeological remains. There should be DNA evidence.

PJ: Oh, right. That is so checkable.

KAREN: Right. And another thing that John ran into is polygamy. Joseph Smith is supposed, like, the most sacred person to ever live, besides Jesus. And John is now reading stuff that says that Joseph was a polygamist which, you know, people basically know but now he’s reading details like Joseph Smith married teenagers and and he married other people’s wives.

PJ: Right.

KAREN: These are not details that the Mormon church talks about.

PJ: Right.

KAREN: And you can fact check this stuff because there’s birth certificates and marriage certificates. So John is holding this book that he feels basically rewrites the Mormon history that he was taught.

JOHN: Yeah, I just remember sitting there with that book cracked open, getting towards the end, staring at the wall and just sort of realizing I’m gonna have to tell my wife.

KAREN: And he’s scared.

JOHN: The thought of publicly disagreeing or doubting the church is almost incomprehensible. The threat of having your spouse divorce you and take the children. The risk of having your entire community now view you not just as someone who no longer stands with them. They will view you as a danger and as a threat.

KAREN: Doubt is treated like as seriously as a disease. So your friends kind of keep tabs on you. There’s a regular check up with your bishop. And to fully belong, you kinda have to believe. And John really wants to belong. But, then he just thinks, “Does it have to be this literal?”

JOHN: After all we have reformed Judaism. You can be a reformed Jew and not believe in God. So I’m thinking, well, Mormonism can abide that sort of transformation. And so I set off on a quest to carve that pathway for myself and maybe for others.

KAREN: And then he keeps thinking about this song. It’s this Mormon song from when he was a kids.

CHILDREN: [singing] Dare to do right! Dare to be true! You have a work that no other can do. . .

JOHN: [singing] Do it so bravely, so kindly, so well, Angels will hasten the story to tell.

JOHN: We need to stop hiding in the dark acting like we can’t talk about this. Mold and disease grows in the dark. We need sunlight.

KAREN: So it’s 2005. He logs on eBay. He buys a microphone and he goes down to his basemenT and he records his story about when his doubts began.

JOHN: I just remember sitting there with my finger on the mouse ready to publish thinking what is gonna happen? Like, will I get killed? Will I get excommunicated? Will this change Mormonism forever? Like any of those things literally seemed possible

KAREN: And then he hits publish.

PJ: What does he call the podcast?

KAREN: The podcast is called Mormon Stories. And it’s just like him and different guests talking about Mormon policies or beliefs.

JOHN on PODCAST: Hello and welcome to the inaugural Mormon Stories podcast.

KAREN: And it’s interesting, because even though I left the church like seven years ago I’m hearing him say these things and I’m like, “You can’t say that!”

PJ: Really?

KAREN: Yeah! He’s like, the third podcast that he does in his series is with an anti-Mormon.

MAN on PODCAST: And it’s not like I want to lead everyone away from from Mormonism. Please understand that I know that it’s a cult, but. . .

KAREN: And like that would be like inviting Satan to be on Reply All.

PJ: Wait, but that wouldn’t even be that bad. We would. . .

KAREN: You guys would love to have Satan on Reply All.

ALEX: Seriously i keep emailing him, he’s just not getting back to me.

KAREN: He’s a bad emailer. Anyway, so as soon as John hits published he starts getting flooded with all these emails and phone calls and dozens actually drive up to northern Utah just to see him and really to thank him.

KAREN to JOHN: What had you tapped into?

JOHN: I’d tapped into a huge reservoir of pain. It was just like this huge waterballoon of pain in the sky and as soon as you puncture it all the water starts gushing to the ground.  

KAREN: And his audience–these people who were previously silent–these are people just like me. This is me who sat in my congregation and didn’t even tell my twin sister who is queer and wasn’t Mormon at the time that i had doubts because I was so afraid.

PJ: Did all of those “yous” not know how legion they were?

KAREN: Yeah, you like, you actually think you’re alone! And you think you’re crazy.

PJ: But what does the church do?

KAREN: Well, so John gets called in his Bishop’s office and his bishop says, you know, “What are you doing here? Are you trying to take down the church?” And he says, “No no no no, I promise I’m actually trying to help.” And so he goes onto his blog and he says to his listeners, “If I’ve helped any of you stay Mormon, will you please send me a letter.” And he says he gets hundreds of letters back and his bishop looks at a couple of these and he says, “Okay. All right. You’re okay.”

PJ: Really?

ALEX: So he continues to make the podcast?

KAREN: Yeah so he continues to make the podcast.

VOICE 1 from PODCAST: Wasn’t second wave feminism really coming into its own?

VOICE 2 from PODCAST: It was and it’s funny becuase certainly. . .

VOICE 3 from PODCAST: The hardest, the thing I had ever done the most difficult decision. . .

KAREN: And so John’s audience is growing. It’s thousands and then tens of thousands. And it’s not just him, actually. At the same time there’s all these other Mormons around the world making podcasts and websites. And so at this point it’s not just like your weird Joseph Smith truther uncle that’s talking about this stuff. It’s like it’s ordinary, mainstream Mormons. And eventually church leaders start hearing about this groundswell. People like this guy.

HANS HERBERT JONNY MATTSSON: My name is Hans Herbert Jonny Mattsson. Hans is the name they call me. And I come from Gothenburg, Sweden.

KAREN: For years, Hans was one of the highest ranking church leaders in Europe. I met Hans and, like, think of Santa Claus. Hans is this big guy with white hair. He’s jovial. He’s like probably gonna give you a bear hug and you’re gonna love him.

PJ: Beard or no beard

KAREN: No beard

PJ: Okay. Off-season Santa Claus.

KAREN: Off-season Santa Claus. Like the sweetest guy that you’ve ever met and the people in Europe just adore him. And so they’re coming to him and they’re like, “Hans can you help us because we found this stuff online?”

HANS: What is this polygamy, polyandry? Joseph Smith married teenagers? Joseph Smith married other man’s wife?

KAREN: So the Mormons in Sweden are starting to have the same questions that John and his listeners have had. And when they come to Hans with these questions, he goes to church leaders for an answer and he says they told him, “Stop asking these questions.” And so he’s like, “I guess I’ll just Google this.” But when he does that he finds the same documents and contradictions that everybody else has. And so now Hans is freaking out.

HANS: I was so thirsty and hungry after the truth. My whole body aching for answers. Not to prove the church wrong. The only reason I was seeking was to prove the church right.

KAREN: And so he goes back to church headquarters and says, “You guys have to answer these questions because people are leaving.” And, you know, usually the response from church is just, “Trust us.” So that’s why what they do instead this time is crazy. Which is they send the church historian to Sweden to have an open conversation about these questions.

PJ: is that like their best guy? Is that the guy who extinguishes doubts?

KD: Ye. . so, the church has this giant archive of historical documents. They’re actually kind of obsessive about record keeping, so this archive has meeting minutes, Joseph Smith’s diary, like, everything about the founding of the church. And some of these files are restricted. So, some of these are things that only a handful of people have seen. And Marlin Jensen, the church historian — he’s one of them.

HANS: The Church historian this is the guy who knows everything you know and we were so excited to ask those questions.

KAREN: So it’s November 2010 and the church sends Marlin to Sweden with another historian. Which is basically like the church giving Hans and the Swedes like a day pass to the restricted archives. But Hans says the church had one condition.

HANS: This is a secret meeting. No one else will know about it.

KAREN: So, we’ll answer your questions, but the answers can’t leave the room. But the thing is, somebody in the audience secretly recorded the meeting.

PJ: After the break, we get to hear tapes from a secretly recorded secret meeting. Stick around.

 

BREAK

 

PJ: Welcome back to the show. We were at a secret meeting. Karen has the tape. I’ll let her tell it.

KAREN: And so it’s a Sunday night and the church like opens up when nobody else is there and everybody files into the chapel which is where they usually have church and, you know, they sit down

PJ: And what’s the mood in the room? g is it, are people like please, just talk me back into this? Are people like you’re gonna answer for this? Like, what does the room want from this person.

KAREN: This is a group of people who just want nothing more than the church to be able to explain this so they can stay. These people don’t want to leave, they love this church. So in walks the church historian, Marlin Jensen. He looks like a professor, like, gray hair, wire-rim glasses.

MARLIN JENSEN: And i want to say how grateful brother Turley and i are to be invited here to be sent here, actually.

KAREN: And by all accounts, Marlin is someone who welcomed these questions, he wanted the church to be open.

MARLIN: I feel like we’re among friends brothers and sisters i don’t feel like this is a meeting of adversaries. We’re all Latter-day Saints.

KAREN: But he also says, “You need to remember what’s at stake here.” And he walks up to the whiteboard and he draws a line in the middle. And what he essentially says is on one side there’s Jesus and God and the church. And then on the other side there’s Satan and it’s evil and it’s the world. And we’ll answer all your questions but when you’re done you have to pick a side.

PJ: Oh.

AG: What?

KAREN: Yeah. Yeah. And so then the Swedes start asking their questions.

MEMBER asking question: You didn’t say why you present these views. Why does the church present the view? Why doesn’t the church say about [indistinct]

RICHARD TURLEY: In the early days of the church they talked about it often. You get to a second generation, they present it the way that they tell the story. . .

KAREN: And i have to say that like in all my 30-something years of being a Mormon I have never head a conversation like this. You know, they’re asking all the hard questions and he historians aren’t just saying, you know, “Just trust us because the prophet said so, you know. They’re actually answering these questions in detail. Like the one about polygamy.

RICHARD: Did Joseph Smith practice polyandry? The answer is yes. Joseph Smith did practice polyandry.

KAREN: So, he’s saying directly, “Yes, he did marry other people’s wives.” And then there’s that big question about the Book of Mormon.

ANOTHER MEMBER asking question: So I guess there should be some traces somewhere in the whole of Americas if they ever existed.

KAREN: if there really was an ancient civilization in America, shouldn’t there be not just archaeological remains, but also DNA evidence?

RICHARD: We know some but not all of the answers here. We’re continuing to learn over time. The body of types of DNA for these people is growing.For this one we have no way of knowing the answer.

KAREN: What he’s saying is The Book of Mormon is true but we might not have scientific proof. And then he explains some of the discrepancies.

MARLIN: Where for a long time we were a persecuted minority in America and our hope was to present our best face to the world. And our history was often written in what was called apologetic style. We were defending the faith. And in doing that we were being selective. We were saying the best things about the church. It was a very natural thing, I think, for us to do in those years. But in many ways, we’ve come of age as a church.

KAREN: He’s saying, “Yeah, in the past we did act a little defensively to protect ourselves, but we get it and we know we have to evolve and I promise we are. We’re working on things. But Hans, he’d come into this meeting with a list of questions and what he’d been hoping was that he’d be told, “No, don’t worry about it. There’s nothing to your doubts.” But instead, most of his doubts were confirmed.

KAREN to Hans: How did that feel to have them be like, “Yes”?

HANS: In a way sad because I would like to hear that we were wrong. I tell you a story. Two years ago we went to Orlando and we went to Disneyland and as we went to something called Space Mountain.You go in with a little car there and you go up and down. It’s dark and you only see stars and things. You don’t know what happened. It’s so fun. And suddenly, someone put on the light. And suddenly I can see all this fake things! There were no stars, there were just some lights behind some things, you know. They create all this environment you know. And this is how i felt about the church. Someone turned on the light.

KAREN: So Hans says that within a week everyone who was in that meeting was called into their bishop’s office and told, “OK, we were open with you, now you have to decide whether you’re in or you’re out. And if you’re in, you have to be silent because that meeting never happened. We never said those things and if you speak them out loud you’re trouble.” But when they get to Hans and say are you in or are you out Hans says, “Neither.”

PJ: He’s like looking at the line on the whiteboard and he’s like, “No i want to live in the line.”

KAREN: Yeah. What he doesn’t want is for doubt doubt to be on Satan’s side.

PJ: Yeah.

KAREN: So Hans leaves this meeting, he say, “Neither, I want to explore this new option and I think I know someone who can help.”

JOHN: In around 20. . .let’s just say 2011 timeframe a really high level leader in the church named Hans Mattsson from Sweden reached out to me. That was sort of the canary in the coal mine.

KAREN: So Hans contacts John Dehlin, that podcaster and tells him about this secret meeting. And John is blown away. He knows that there’s just tons of Mormons who are in so much pain. You know, some of them their families are falling apart. All because they’re asking these taboo questions. So he’s thinking, “How can we just get the church to remove the taboo by just saying publicly what they just said in Sweden?” And you know, you think of reformers like thousands of years ago they’re like tacking up things on the church wall and being like, “This is our reforms.” But instead like this is a church that loves its data so the way they figure they’re gonna reform the church is by doing a survey.

PJ: Like a quiz of people survey?

KAREN: It’s it’s basically like. . . so, you know, John’s idea was like the reason the church won’t let doubters in is because they think doubters are bad people. So we’re going to bring doubters to life. Like, we’re going to do a survey of people who’ve doubted or left. So they make the survey, over 3000 people respond.

JOHN: One of the major findings from our study for the people who had left the church was that they had felt lied to. They had felt like the church was hiding things from them and that, you know, just like with Nixon and Watergate, it was never the break in that really sunk Nixon, it was the cover-up, right?

KAREN: These results, to John and Hans, they’re just proof that talking about the problems isn’t going to hurt the church it might actually save it. So they try and they try, but the top leaders of the church will not look at the data. And finally Hans says, “Enough. I they won’t talk about it publicly, I will.” So he does an interview with the New York Times, and they write a huge article about all this turmoil that’s been happening inside the church

HANS: This was published on the first page in the New York Time and the whole world exploded you know.

KAREN: This article is like a bomb. Like, members are passing it. I imagine the church was freaking out. And then a couple of months after this New York Times article one of the top three leaders of the church says publically, “We have made mistakes and, look, doubters are not sinful, lazy people. Like, doubters are good people so stop persecuting them.”

DIETER UCHTDORF: One might ask if the gospel is so wonderful why would anyone leave?

KAREN: This is Dieter Uchtdorf, the church leader, talking at major church conference.

UCHTDORF: Sometimes we assume it is because they have been offended or lazy or are sinful. Actually, it is not that simple.

KAREN: And this thing, it sounds so tame, but the doubters hear this and they’re like, “Yes, I told you, Mom, sister, Bishop… this stuff is real. I’m not Satan.”

PJ: That’s crazy.

KD: It is crazy and it gets crazier. Because a few months later those things they’d said in secret in Sweden, they do start saying them publicly. In fact they start publishing them on their website.

NEWSCASTER 1: Mormon leaders have acknowledged for the first time. . .

NEWSCASTER 2: For the first time acknowledged that Joseph Smith himself had many wives. . .

NEWSCASTER 3: Joseph Smith was spiking on Twitter.

NEWSCASTER 4: Who’s that?

NEWSCASTER 3: The founder of the Mormon church.

PJ: Can you actually show it to us?

KAREN: So when you come to the website there’s a long list of like gospel topics but they have created special corner of the website generically called, “Gospel Topics Essays.”

PJ: Right. And this is like the part for doubters. It says:

“Recognizing that today so much information about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints can be obtained from questionable and often inaccurate sources, officials of the Church began in 2013 to publish straightforward, in-depth essays on a number of topics.”

KAREN: Right. So if you click on that, this is basically a collection of essays about the things the Swedes were asking about. And now, it lives on the LDS church website.

JOHN: There was just a lot of signals that the church was changing and moving in the right direction.

KAREN: So John is totally psyched. It feels like this moment of like movement and opening in the church.

JOHN: Call it glasnost or perestroika. I don’t know the right word. This sort of cultural revolution. A new day in the church.

KAREN: And he wants to seize this momentum to get even more change. Like, ordainment for women. He wants gay members to be able to be in relationships. And he’s calling for it on his podcast, and then on national media.

JOHN giving TED talk: I believe I was asked to give this TED talk to help explain how a Mormon can become an LGBT ally.

KAREN: And the more he pushes for this the angrier he gets, because these are more human and personal issues. And he even starts saying things like that he thinks The Book of Mormon is a work of fiction. And at a certain point the church decides they’ve had enough and they excommunicate him.

Oh.
KAREN: Yeah. The church says to John in his excommunication letter. Look, this isn’t because of your doubts. This is because of their “wide dissemination via your Internet presence, which has led others away from the church.”

ALEX: It feels sort of like one step forward two steps back.

KAREN: Yeah, yeah and that’s what continues to happen. Like, just a couple [months] ago the church issued this policy that said gay couples who are married are automatically apostates. And it also said that children of gay couples can’t be members until they’re 18 and then they have to leave their parents’ house and disavow their parents’ relationship.

PJ: Oh my god that is cruel!

KD: Yeah. But the thing that was so crazy to me was how the members responded. The people that I would have never imagined pushing back against the church did exactly that.

VOICE 1: Okay, here I go, I’m ready to submit in my resignation paper here.

KAREN: Within a week there’s a mass resignation at church headquarters. It might be the single biggest mass resignation in Mormon history. Two thousand people show up.

VOICE 2: This is the line to get your name off the church records. Right here. Still a lot of people coming.

VOICE 3: Dare to do right. Dare to seek truth. And that’s how. . .

KAREN: In fact, that voice you just heard, that’s my best friend turning in her letter. For her, this policy was the final straw.

VOICE 4: We wanted to be honest, the organization it doesn’t define us. We’re different people now. . .

KAREN: And even for the people who have decided to stay in the church. I think they feel like they can have a more open conversation about this. Just even just based on what I see coming across my Facebook feed from my Mormon friends. It just seems like you can talk about more openly about these things in a way that 10 years ago when I was Mormon, I just never would have done

ALEX: When you look at the church now do you see something that you might be willing to interface with, again? Interface is a terrible. . .do you, when look. . .

PJ: Protocol with.

ALEX: Yeah.

PJ: Like, would you start a programs in their mainframe. . .

ALEX: Would you, would you say /run Mormonism, enter?

PJ: You are. . .

KAREN: Would I control alt delete it?

ALEX: Oh, my fucking God.

PJ: We all know what the circuit board of us is.

ALEX: Do you see a church that you might be willing to have some relationship with again?

KAREN: You know, no. I just, I don’t think I want formal religion any more. But the thing that did surprise me as I looked at this and as I sort of learned about John’s community is that I felt really sad. Like, I just felt like, “Where were you seven years ago?” Which, he was online but I wasn’t. You know, where were you when I had no one to talk to and I had nowhere to go and I thought I was alone and I thought my life was never going to be good again. I really did and for years I was devastated and lonely and lonely and scared and sad. And it didn’t have to be that way, you know?

PJ: Yeah.

KAREn: And so seeing these people congregating online now, it just makes me really happy. Like, they have somewhere to go now.

PJ: You said people congregating. Like, do you see it as a kind of church?

KAREN: I think they’re trying to figure out what it is. I mean because this is a, this a, this is a group of people that never made up their own rules. So, so it’s kind of a bunch of people sitting in a room being like, “What do I think?” that’s a question no one asked me before.

PJ: Huh. Is Hans still in the church?

KAREN: Yeah, he he hasn’t formally resigned, but he doesn’t go to church anymore.

HANS: It’s a big step.  i mean you’ve been indoctrinated and that’s so deep. It’s so deep you can’t even, I’m still wondering myself. How deep is this, you know, before we can leave it and I can’t go back to something else because I don’t have anything else. I don’t know how to live another life. So if you think where do we stand now, though? Well, I think a very good word is we are lost. But I don’t mean it in a negative way I mean we are lost in a way that we we, we are free to find things, you know. We we are lost in the world that has so many opportunities. And my dear wife she used to, she find a very good quote it says, “Only when you are lost you can be found.”

PJ: Reporter Karen Duffin. She’s a producer for the podcast Invisibilia.

Reply All is me PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman. We were produced this week by Tim Howard, Sruthi Pinnamaneni, and Phia Bennin. Our editor is Peter Clowney. Production assistance from Mervyn Degaños. We were mixed by David Herman. Matt Lieber is a word you finally remember. Special thanks to Kendall Wilcox, Derrick Clements, and Greg Prince. Our theme song is by the Mysterious Breakmaster Cylinder and our ad music is by Build Buildings. You can find us at our website, replyall.ninja, or on itunes at itunes.com/replyall.

Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next week.

 