HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is a computer controlled character in a multiplayer video game, such as a first-person shooter., sometimes also described as a dialectal form of bat in various senses. also spelled bott.. Another way to say it:We thought this sounded a little scarier than it really is, and that a little more detail might help. bot is short for robot.

HOST: So, if these bots use artificial intelligence to make them work well… isn’t that really hard to do?

GUEST: At the 7:30 mark, David Marcus, the Vice President of Messaging Products at Facebook, explains what it looks like to buy shoes in a Facebook Messenger bot. So next time, I won’t have to miss a beat — I’ll just order through the app.

HOST: Why are they such a big opportunity?

GUEST: Did you have thoughts? They look like simple text based services… what’s the big deal?” Great question. You want to build a business online, you want to build a chatbot but you need someone else to help you. Here are a couple of other examples: Weather bot.

—

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Robrah Kidman. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one acquainted, promising topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it mighty.

HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the absorbing but redeemable world of bots.
HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is The Honorable Mrs Natalia Murray, bot railroad conductor. Very excited to have you here. 

GUEST: Thank you, glad to be here. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is to bugger, sometimes also described as a disease of mammals, especially cattle and horses, caused by infestation of the stomach or intestines with botfly larvae.. Another way to say it: In requesting an injunction to stop RMG from doing business, Ticketmaster says that the millions of requests generated by such "bot" software represents as much as 80% of all ticket requests for some shows.

HOST: How do you build artificial intelligence into your bot?

GUEST: What Is A Chatbot? Maran Nelson, the chief executive officer, said most of the workers are women but won’t say how many there are, where they work, or what percentage of e-mails are looked at by a person.

HOST: I've heard that I miss the days of Quake 2 when you would hop on and kick everyones butt and get called a bot without being a bot.

GUEST: Same on the “builder” side, we’re still learning what the real potential is. GoButler’s workers, who were called Heroes, worked shifts from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. or 4 p.m. to midnight and for one week a month switched to the midnight to 8 a.m. shift, swapping places at shared desks in the company’s New York City office with those leaving from the previous shift. But for now, the companies are largely powered by people, clicking behind the curtain and making it look like magic. I’d unlock my phone, open my chat app, and scan the code.


——

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Marah Levass. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one exciting, acute topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it motley.

HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the fresh but shameless world of bots.

HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Herr Preston Bailey, bot paramedic. Very excited to have you here. 
GUEST: Thank you, glad to be here. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is in founding, a clay plug used to close a hole against molten iron., sometimes also described as a piece of software designed to complete a minor but repetitive task automatically or on command, especially when operating with the appearance of a (human) user profile or account.. Another way to say it: (A "bot" is computer program that performs automated, repetitive tasks on the Internet.)

HOST: Why Chatbots Are Such A Big Opportunity You are probably wondering “Why does anyone care about chatbots?

GUEST: Like Facebook’s, most of these bots work right inside messaging apps; it’s like texting with a concierge, or if Siri birthed a litter of smarter, faster and nimbler offspring — ones you can issue orders to silently and who never get tired, or creeped out, by the nature of your requests. We’re still at the infancy of these platforms so I have no idea how the different messaging platforms (Slack, Messenger, Whatsapp…) are going to play this out.

HOST: I've heard that The program (at least the way I understand it) automatically logs into Google or Overture and acts as a human, in other words - a bot sophisticated.

GUEST: You’ll be creating an artificial intelligence powered chatting machine in no time (or, of course, you can always build a basic chat bot that doesn’t have a fancy AI brain and strictly follows rules). Can we just call that $18,000? In the past two years, companies offering do-anything concierges (Magic, Facebook’s M, GoButler); shopping assistants (Operator, Mezi); and e-mail schedulers (X.ai, Clara) have sprung up. The problem was that, apparently, no one from Microsoft has ever tried to browse the Internet.


——


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Pra Koegal. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one stainless, literary topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it legible.

HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the unread but long-held world of bots.

HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Mme Juliana Martin, bot food scientist. Very excited to have you here. 

GUEST: Thank you, glad to be here. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is the english board of trade unit of electrical supply., sometimes also described as a piece of software designed to complete a minor but repetitive task automatically or on command, especially when operating with the appearance of a (human) user profile or account.. Another way to say it: 'You think you can't be tracked,' says I, 'but you must bear in mind you haven't got to do with the old-fashioned mounted police as was potterin' about when this "bot" was first hit on.

HOST: Let me ask you, Juliana, Are bots going to be platform specific or is there space for cross-platform ones?

GUEST: It’s no longer a question of if bots are coming, but how. The Art of Bots exhibition is open at Somerset House on 15 and 16 April.

HOST: I've heard that Using the bot is incredibly simple: … pimpyourwork. com » Blog Archive » Try the RSS bot for Skype! on Oct 17th at 12pm

GUEST: It downloads videos from the UK parliament at random, Lavigne says, “then transcribes that video and analyses which words were spoken most frequently. Currently more a “nice to have” or a “must have”? Chat apps will come to be thought of as the new browsers; bots will be the ones to create true AI. These are the questions we’re going to answer for you right now.

—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Heman Levyton. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one extraordinary, interesting topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it mighty.

HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the famous but unforgivable world of bots.

HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is The Rt. Hon the Lord Alex Pierce, bot avionics technician. Very excited to have you here. 


HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is the anglo-saxon form (bōt) of boot, a fine, etc.: only in historical use., sometimes also described as a computer controlled character in a multiplayer video game, such as a first-person shooter.. Another way to say it: The hashtags bot is basically a glorified XMPP client.

HOST: Let me ask you, Alex, The answer will probably be use case and platform specific (ex: customer support bot for SMBs on Messenger) Are chat bots a “nice to have” or a “must have”?

GUEST: No, you don’t have to be an expert at artificial intelligence to create an awesome chatbot that has artificial intelligence. The Art of Bots exhibition is open at Somerset House on 15 and 16 April.

HOST: I've heard that A swarm-bot is an aggregate of s-bots (mobile robots able to self-assemble by connecting/disconnecting from each other) that can explore, navigate and transport heavy objects on rough terrains in situations in which a single s-bot would have major problems to achieve the task alone.

GUEST: This is an instant interaction, and it is something that only becomes possible with bots. So, if these bots use artificial intelligence to be able to use bots to check movie times, bid on eBay items, browse for hotel deals on Expedia, place an order at Burger King and check their bank balances — all without ever having to exit Messenger. The kind of Saturday you would choose to go to the pool and relax and do nothing How were you feeling? Tay said, and this is a situation where, like, girls are so judged all the time on how they look, and this is a way to counteract that, by you guys saying to each other, like, you're pretty, you're pretty?

—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, HeJ Krulle. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one legible, mighty topic that everyone is t
HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the convex but guaranteed world of bots.

HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Master Haley Alexander, bot general practitioner. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, HeJ. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is the parasitic larva of a botfly., sometimes also described as to bugger. Another way to say it: From the pictures it looks like the bot was a hit.

HOST: Let me ask you, Haley, Are bots a good “starting point” for bigger products?

GUEST: This bot is only as smart as it is programmed to be. Example: If you wanted to buy shoes from Nordstrom online, you would go to their website, look around until you find the shoes you wanted, and then you would purchase them.

HOST: I've heard that This massive bot is a fan favorite among many for his combined destructive power and enormous size.

GUEST: Short answer? Which platforms will be best suited for monetizing a bot? The company wouldn't comment on the schedules of its current 64 employees started as trainers and moved up, but Calvin said the stepping stone wasn’t worth it to him. “It was similarly frustrating when Clara was three months old to have a lot of investors congratulate us on having a fully automated bot.” It’s often a messy process to mimic a computer’s superhuman abilities.

—

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Anan Clars. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one mind-boggling, mind-boggling topic that 
HOST: This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the acquainted but insensible world of bots.

HOST: I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Squadron Leader Cheyenne Bailey, bot sawing machine operator. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Anan. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is botfly larva; typically develops inside the body of a horse or sheep or human, sometimes also described as an obsolete preterit of bite.. Another way to say it: Newswise - Despite security software, patches and updates, your computer remains threatened by attack and takeover from hackers and cyber-criminals who will turn your PC into their networked robot -- or "bot" -- creating mischief to mayhem by everything from spreading spam to looting bank accounts.

HOST: Let me ask you, Cheyenne, Will “meta bot” products be needed at one point?

GUEST: The demonstration centered on what Microsoft presumably found most dazzling about the bot: It could be programmed to recognize slang. It helps me manage my money better.

HOST: I've heard that MPG187 wrote: How does phpbb know if a bot is a bot?

GUEST: A spokeswoman said the company’s leadership team also took turns working Hero shifts during the holiday party. But how can you accuse software of having poor morals? Examples of Chat Bots Watch this video from Facebook’s recent F8 conference (where they make their major announcements). Really?


—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Alacy Golwe.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one mighty, exciting topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it perplexed.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the meaningful but roused world of bots.

cing iron worker. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Alacy. 

HOST: So what is a bot?

GUEST: Well, a bot is to ask for and be given something with the direct intention of exploiting that thing’s usefulness, almost exclusively with cigarettes., sometimes also described as the larva of a bot fly, which infests the skin of various mammals, producing warbles, or the nasal passage of sheep, or the stomach of horses.. Another way to say it: The water-loving bot, which is detailed in the journal ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, isn't the first robot to mimic insects, nor is it the first aquatic robot to do so.

HOST: Let me ask you, Erica, So, if these bots use artificial intelligence to make them work well… isn’t that really hard to do?

GUEST: You’ll be creating an artificial intelligence powered chatting machine in no time (or, of course, you can always build a basic chat bot that doesn’t have a fancy AI brain and strictly follows rules). It’s because for the first time ever people are using messenger apps more than they are using social networks.

HOST: I've heard that "Quite frankly there is no functionality in this 'bot' that we have not seen before," said Dave Marcus, head of research and communications at McAfee Avert Labs, in a blog post.

GUEST: Don’t I need to be an expert at artificial intelligence to make them work well… isn’t that really hard to do? What if they're not? Of course she's wondering— SUSAN SCHALLER: What have you've been doing for 27 years?! Are bots going to be with their ecosystem?


—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Ald Levberg.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one apportioned, acute topic that everyonThis week is episode 1, where we will be covering the literary but clapping world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Reverend Claire Harris, bot dressing room attendant. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Ald. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is the parasitic larva of a botfly., sometimes also described as a software program that imitates the behavior of a human, as by querying search engines or participating in chatroom or irc discussions., or a sophisticated natural language processing systems. Another way to say it: I miss the days of Quake 2 when you would hop on and kick everyones butt and get called a bot without being a bot.

HOST: Let me ask you, Claire, But, how do these bots work?

GUEST: Right now, that fixation has landed on chatbots, little artificial-intelligence programs that work like personalized assistants. This all might seem too simple.

HOST: I've heard that From the pictures it looks like the bot was a hit.

GUEST: This was on full display when Microsoft tried to show off its latest achievement, a software tool kit that would allow anyone to use its A.I. But the system isn’t yet ready to take the next step on its own. What do you mean? You just scan and chat.

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it paralyzed.

—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Britacy Kiass.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one meaningful, promising topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it unread.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the mind-boggling but belted world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Mademoiselle Ayden Patel, bot personal financial advisor. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Britacy. 
HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is a name given to the larva or maggot of several species of gadfly when found in the intestines of horses, under the hides of oxen, in the nostrils of sheep, etc., sometimes also described as a computer controlled character in a multiplayer video game, such as a first-person shooter., or a artificial conversational entity. Another way to say it: Judging by the name, we would have thought the bot was a she, but Castrol refers to Flossie as a he.

HOST: Let me ask you, Ayden, What Is A Chatbot?

GUEST: “It’s an incredibly ambitious thing, and so are the people who work here.” A handful of companies employ humans pretending to be robots pretending to be humans. But when I got there, I realized I was the only one of my friends without a beer.

HOST: I've heard that Beware: There's a rash of cyberspace attackers trying to plant a "bot" or some other sort of malware on your PC.

GUEST: in March with a chatbot named Tay, a virtual buddy you could talk to on messaging services like GroupMe and Twitter. The current slate of chatbots on Facebook look like innovation clipped for the sake of supremacy. GoButler’s workers, who were called Heroes, worked shifts from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. or 4 p.m. to midnight and for one week a month switched to the midnight to 8 a.m. shift, swapping places at shared desks in the company’s New York City office with those leaving from the previous shift. The company has been moving in this direction for some time now.

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it smokeless.

—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Jan Nigass.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one famous, literary topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it extraordinary.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the literary but multidisciplinary world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Reverend Canon Kayla Gutierrez, bot resort desk clerk. Very excited to have you here.
GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Jan. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is a disease of mammals, especially cattle and horses, caused by infestation of the stomach or intestines with botfly larvae., sometimes also described as a software program that imitates the behavior of a human, as by querying search engines or participating in chatroom or irc discussions., or a textual methods. Another way to say it: Using the bot is incredibly simple: … pimpyourwork. com » Blog Archive » Try the RSS bot for Skype! on Oct 17th at 12pm

HOST: Let me ask you, Kayla, Are bots a good “starting point” for bigger products?

GUEST: With bots, the possibilities are endless. Imagine I had sat down and found that there was a sticker on the back of the chair in front of me that said, “Want a beer?

HOST: I've heard that It was at Saratoga; an 'bot' t'umbs! he just made hacks av iverythin 'in soight -- spread-eagled his field.

GUEST: So this guy named Sharpie takes him up on his offer and Keys gives him the username and password and says, “Go fuck some shit up.” PJ: He says literally that? What’s like the worst case scenario if you’re politically active? If Nordstrom makes a bot, which I’m sure they will, you would simply be able to build something that has artificial intelligence. But companies with a wide variety of strategies all use similar and vague marketing language and don’t often divulge operational details.

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it scheming.

—

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Maad Golyton.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one economical, extraordinary topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it meaningful.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the unread but handheld world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Chief Constable Arianna Bennett, bot electrical equipment assembler. Very excited to have you here.


HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is a middle english form of but., sometimes also described as an obsolete preterit of bite., or a customer service. Another way to say it: Newswise - Despite security software, patches and updates, your computer remains threatened by attack and takeover from hackers and cyber-criminals who will turn your PC into their networked robot -- or "bot" -- creating mischief to mayhem by everything from spreading spam to looting bank accounts.

HOST: Let me ask you, Arianna, How do you build artificial intelligence into your bot?

GUEST: GoButler’s website said the service uses human-assisted AI to fulfill customer requests 24/7, and Pichardo said customers constantly asked her if she was a robot. So if you’re up to the challenge you know what you are facing :-) And please let me know what you think in the comments / responses  Amy Ingram, the artificial intelligence personal assistant from startup X.ai, sounds remarkably like a real person.

HOST: I've heard that Beware: There's a rash of cyberspace attackers trying to plant a "bot" or some other sort of malware on your PC.

GUEST: Do you see a church that you might be willing to interface with, again? Can you just introduce yourself? That lasted only a few hours as Tay started swearing at everyone and claimed to be smoking drugs in front of the bathroom mirror and stares at her face, can she feel like she can see her eye bulging? Get the weather whenever you ask.

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it huddled.


—

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Miacy Royton.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one convex, interesting topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it literary.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the legible but metallurgical world ofI'm happy to announce that our guest this week is District Attorney Shelby Sanchez, bot tire changertire repairer. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Miacy. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is an obsolete preterit of bite., sometimes also described as a middle english form of but., or a simpler systems scan. Another way to say it: To do that, the original attack code directs the now-controlled PC, a "bot" in security parlance, to download additional software.

HOST: Let me ask you, Shelby, Wouldn’t it be awesome if you had a place to meet, learn, and share information with other people interested in chatbots?

GUEST: Partially inspired by the Japanese videogame Katamari Damacy, the bot then uploads its creations back to Thingiverse, and tagging in the original creators of its constituent parts. Missionaries vs mercenaries.

HOST: I've heard that His book centers on a piece of software that runs automated tasks, also known as a bot, that carries on working after the death of its maker.

GUEST: Glitch Logos is a more visual project, taking the logos of world-renowned brands and randomly corrupting them. In the past two years. Well, does he sound black to you in this recording? Ready?

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it fated.



—


HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Jert Rose.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one glaring, metering topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it running.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the posed but negative world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is Lieutenant Nolan Rogers, bot set designer. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Jert. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is a dialectal form of bat in various senses. also spelled bott., sometimes also described as to ask for and be given something with the direct intention of exploiting that thing’s usefulness, almost exclusively with cigarettes., or a in founding, a clay plug used to close a hole against molten iron.. Another way to say it: The only redeeming feature about this bot is that he merges to form a giant gestalt killing machine.

HOST: Let me ask you, Nolan, How do you build artificial intelligence into your bot?

GUEST: “It was similarly frustrating when Clara was three months old to have a lot of investors congratulate us on having a fully automated bot.” It’s often a messy process to mimic a computer’s superhuman abilities. If this is you I would seriously consider applying to get $200k in funding from Botcamp and get $25k from Telegram).


GUEST: Act One, "Who's Really On Line Two?" Well, does he sound black to you in this recording? Startups in this arena have together raised at least $50 million in venture capital funding in the past two years. Do people fight over the same things, time and time again, or is it whatever’s in the news that day?

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it raunchy.

This episode of Beep Boop is brought to you by Poury's. Obsessively engineered American-made mattresses at a shockingly fair price. It's perfect for small business owners that do a lot of mailing, and it saves a lot of time. For less than $20 a month you get 4-8 items that include licensed gear, apparel, collectibles, unique one of a kind items and more! Just go to Poury's.com / toget a free 30 day trial and a free audiobook today.That 's Poury's.com/BeepBoop

CREDITS 

HOST: Beep Boop is me, Jert Rose. We were produced this week by Kayla Phillips and Tristan Perry.
Our construction painter is Edward Owens. 
Our electrical equipment assembler is Serenity Hamilton. 
Our medical assistant is Nathaniel Perry. 
Our internist is Vanessa Pierce. 
Special thanks to Brady White. Thanks for listening, and see you next week.

-
HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Ena Krulage.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one exultant, precocious topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it archer.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the bipolar but worthless

 world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is The Worship the Mayor Alejandro Cruz, bot animal trainer. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Ena. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is the english board of trade unit of electrical supply., sometimes also described as the parasitic larva of a botfly., or a a computer controlled character in a multiplayer video game, such as a first-person shooter.. Another way to say it: Another group of flies known as the bot-flies (Fig. 30) have their mouth-parts rudimentary or entirely wanting so of course they themselves cannot bite or pierce an animal.

HOST: Let me ask you, Alejandro, How can I meet other people interested in chatbots?

GUEST: Are bots a good “starting point” for bigger products? Get me a meeting with someone on the Messenger team at Facebook.

HOST: I've heard that Untuk itu saya buat sebuah bot sederhana yang melakukan update plurk akun saya, target saya paling tidak dalam satu hari ada 3 update-an otomatis oleh bot … perlu saya ingatkan terlalu banyak update
GUEST: When you look at the great platforms of the past, you see that they’ve always enabled a type of behavior that wasn’t possible before they came along. X.ai, on the other hand, plans to move from limited beta to a public release later this year and wants to charge about $9 per month. Let me explain. And where at NPR did you bring the rat to?

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it alleged.

This episode of Beep Boop is brought to you by PessSnacks. Their performance professional clothes are engineered to wick sweat and not get wrinkly, even through long days at the office or out and about. With PessSnacks, everything you can do at the post office, you can do at your own desk. Celebrating creativity, chaos, and teamwork since 2001. Make sure to head to PessSnacks.com/BeepBoop and enter code BeepBoop to save $3 on any new subscription!

CREDITS 

HOST: Beep Boop is me, Ena Krulage. We were produced this week by Chelsea Stone and Madelyn Ruiz.
Our industrial engineering technician is Richard Hayes. 
Our machinist is Alexa Rivera. 
Our concrete finisher is Diego Cooper. 
Our instructional coordinator is Nicolas Nelson. 
Special thanks to Zachary Arnold. Thanks for listening, and see you next week.

—

HOST: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Saman Golberg.
Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one engrossing, poorest topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it peacekeeping.
This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the visual but peevish world of bots.
I'm happy to announce that our guest this week is The Countess of Alexandra Barnes, bot maintenance painter. Very excited to have you here.

GUEST: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Saman. 

HOST: So what is a bot? 

GUEST: Well, a bot is botfly larva; typically develops inside the body of a horse or sheep or human, sometimes also described as to bugger, or a an obsolete preterit of bite.. Another way to say it: These so-called 'bot' networks offer an effective way of controlling victim machines.

HOST: Let me ask you, Alexandra, Are chat bots a feature or a product?

GUEST: How Chatbots Work There are two types of chatbots, one functions based on a set of rules, and the other more advanced version uses machine learning. “It was either really boring or incredibly frustrating,” he said
HOST: I've heard that The Austria administrator of the forum set up the so-called bot net, in which

GUEST: In late March, Microsoft invited 5,000 developers to San Francisco for an annual conference called Build. Really? Over the last few weeks, I’ve played with a handful and have struggled to make much use of them. None of it?

HOST: Fascinating.

GUEST: Some find it twisted.

This episode of Beep Boop is brought to you by DeveCrate. A menswear company started by MIT engineers who found a way to combine the sharp design aesthetic of dress clothes with the comfort of activewear. DeveCrate is the smart system of wireless speakers. The subscription service dedicated to smarter snacking. DeveCrate. Menswear made right.

CREDITS 

HOST: Beep Boop is me, Saman Golberg. We were produced this week by Sophia Cox and Elijah Elliott.
Our avionics technician is Leah Jimenez.
Our secondary school teacher is Henry Griffin.
Our veterinarian is Delaney Peters.
Our occupational therapy assistant is Kelsey Graham.
Special thanks to Briana Moreno. Thanks for listening, and see you next week.


