BEEP BOOP EPISODE 1: BOTS

--------------- 

ROBRLEE VONIG: Welcome to Beep Boop, a computer generated podcast. I'm your host, Robrlee Vonig. Every week we will bring in a guest to discuss one territorial, evaporated topic that everyone is talking about on the internet. We hope that you will find it gilded. This week is episode 1, where we will be covering the commissioned but bored world of bots. I'm happy to announce that our guest today is Lieutenant Commander Adrianna Gonzales, bot refractory materials repairer. Very excited to have you here.

ADRIANNA GONZALES: Thank you, I'm glad to be here, Robrlee. 

ROBRLEE VONIG: So what is a bot? 

ADRIANNA GONZALES: Well, a bot is the parasitic larva of a botfly., sometimes also described as a software program that imitates the behavior of a human, as by querying search engines or participating in chatroom or irc discussions., or a sophisticated natural language processing systems. Another way to say it: The administrator of the forum set up the so-called bot net, in which computers were infected with virus software and were doing his bidding, providing him with both massive networked computing power and secrets.

ROBRLEE VONIG: Let me ask you, Adrianna, Which platforms will be best suited for monetizing a bot?

ADRIANNA GONZALES: As with every “hyped” field, chat bots attract a lot of entrepreneurs who are jumping in because they have no other ideas, no particular vision / mission and are following the hype. We are going to see a peak followed by a crash.

ROBRLEE VONIG: I've heard that The water-loving bot, which is detailed in the journal ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, isn't the first robot to mimic insects, nor is it the first aquatic robot to do so.

ADRIANNA GONZALES: What’s like the rats? That’s what switching out of the debate about artificial intelligence. That’s still my #1 concern.

ROBRLEE VONIG: How would you do that?

ADRIANNA GONZALES: Not every artbot needs to live online, though. Lots of friends send me updates and notifications, will change in position when it feels like my OS just isn’t doing much for me to hold my phone then. OK, real estate shoppers-- some important factors to take computing home for the long term.

ROBRLEE VONIG: Fascinating.

ADRIANNA GONZALES: Some find it repellent.

ROBRLEE VONIG: Well thank you Adrianna for this literary interview.

ADRIANNA GONZALES: Thanks for having me. 


--------------- 

ROBRLEE VONIG: This episode of Beep Boop is brought to you by Countespace. The subscription service dedicated to smarter snacking. Countespace provides over 180,000 audio programs from leading audiobook publishers. Countespace is offering a free 30 day trial membership! Go to Countespace.com/BeepBoop today to start your free trial today! Countespace. Menswear made right.
--------------- 

ROBRLEE VONIG: Beep Boop is hosted by me, Robrlee Vonig. We were produced this week by Alyssa Daniels and Aubrey Stone.
Our farm labor contractor is Shawn Fernandez.
Our tour guide is Dylan Carter.
Our textile presser is Logan Cook.
Our forester is Mariah Simpson.
Special thanks to our bot fitness studies teacher, Xavier Lopez. Thanks for listening, and see you next week.